16## Management Discussion International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies## YEAR IN REVIEW Results of Continuing OperationsSegment Details As discussed in the “Organization of Information” section, in the first quarter of 2025, we made changes to the reported revenue categories within our Software and Consulting reportable segments. IBM's Software segment reports revenue and year-to-year revenue percent change for Hybrid Cloud (Red Hat), Automation, Data, and Transaction Processing. The Software segment no longer reports Hybrid Platform & Solutions or Security revenue categories. IBM's Consulting segment reports revenue and year-to-year revenue percent change for Strategy and Technology and Intelligent Operations. These changes did not impact our Consolidated Financial Statements or our reportable segments.The following table presents each reportable segment’s revenue and gross margin results, followed by an analysis of the 2025 versus 2024 reportable segment results. The reported revenue categories within our Software and Consulting reportable segments are reported on a comparable basis for all years.## ($ in millions)For the year ended December 31:20252024## Yr.-to-Yr. Percent/ Margin Change## Yr.-to-Yr. Percent Change Adjusted for Currency## Revenue## Software$29,962$27,08510.6 %9.1 %## Gross margin83.5 %83.7 %(0.2) pts.## Consulting21,05520,6921.8 %0.4 %## Gross margin28.1 %27.0 %1.1 pts.## Infrastructure15,71814,02012.1 %10.4 %## Gross margin58.6 %55.8 %2.9 pts.## Financing7377133.3 %2.5 %## Gross margin Other (1)45.3 %6347.9 %243(2.6) pts.(74.0) %(77.5) %## Gross margin## NM(352.8) %## NM## Total revenue$67,535$62,7537.6 %6.1 %## Total gross profit$39,297$35,55110.5 %## Total gross margin58.2 %56.7 %1.5 pts.Non-operating adjustmentsAmortization of acquired intangible assets88872422.6 %Operating (non-GAAP) gross profit$40,184$36,27510.8 %Operating (non-GAAP) gross margin59.5 %57.8 %1.7 pts.(1) Includes reductions in revenue for estimated residual value less related unearned income on sales-type leases, which reflects the z17 launch in June- 2025. Refer to note A, "Significant Accounting Policies," for additional information.## NM–Not meaningful## Software## ($ in millions)For the year ended December 31:20252024 (1)## Yr.-to-Yr. Percent Change## Yr.-to-Yr. Percent Change Adjusted for Currency## Software revenue$29,962$27,08510.6 %9.1 %## Hybrid Cloud$7,327$6,49012.9 %11.7 %## Automation7,7336,55817.916.5## Data6,2995,62911.910.6## Transaction Processing8,6038,4082.30.4(1) Recast to reflect January 2025 changes to the reported revenue categories.Software revenue of $29,962 million increased 10.6 percent as reported (9.1 percent adjusted for currency) in 2025 compared to 2024, with double-digit growth in Hybrid Cloud, Automation and Data. This revenue performance reflects the strength of our diversified portfolio and the investments we have made to drive innovation in our organic software and through acquisitions.## Management Discussion## International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary CompaniesRevenue performance by line of business in 2025 compared to 2024 was as follows:Hybrid Cloud (Red Hat) revenue increased 12.9 percent as reported (11.7 percent adjusted for currency) in 2025, as demand for ourhybrid cloud solutions remained strong. OpenShift annual recurring revenue at year-end 2025 was $1.9 billion, which increasedgreater than 30 percent year over year. Automation revenue increased 17.9 percent as reported (16.5 percent adjusted forcurrency), which includes the contribution from our HashiCorp acquisition. This performance also reflects client demand as theyfocus on optimizing operations, automating their infrastructure and workflows, building resiliency, and driving cost efficiency acrosstheir enterprise. Data revenue increased 11.9 percent as reported (10.6 percent adjusted for currency), reflecting the demand forour portfolio of generative AI products, and strong performance with our established strategic partners, who enable clients to powerAI innovation and mission-critical workloads. Transaction Processing revenue increased 2.3 percent as reported (0.4 percentadjusted for currency), reflecting the benefit from our launch of IBM z17 in June 2025 and the strategic importance of this mission-## critical software.Across Software, our annual recurring revenue (ARR) was $23.6 billion at year end 2025, which increased approximately $2 billioncompared to year end 2024. ARR is a key performance metric management uses to assess the health and growth trajectory of ourSoftware segment, and is calculated by using the current quarter’s recurring revenue and then multiplying that value by four. In thefirst quarter of 2025, the ARR calculation was updated to include all recurring revenue within the Software segment, and thecomparison to 2024 ARR is on the same basis. This value includes the following consumption models: (1) software subscriptionagreements, including committed term licenses, (2) as-a-service arrangements such as SaaS and PaaS, and (3) maintenance andsupport contracts. ARR should be viewed independently of software revenue as this performance metric and its inputs may notrepresent revenue that will be recognized in future periods.## ($ in millions)## Yr.-to-Yr.## Percent/## MarginFor the year ended December 31:20252024## Change## Software## Gross profit$25,011$22,65810.4 %## Gross profit margin83.5 %83.7 %(0.2) pts.## Segment profit$9,920$8,68414.2 %## Segment profit margin33.1 %32.1 %1.0 pts.Software gross profit margin of 83.5 percent in 2025 decreased 0.2 points compared to the prior year. Segment profit of $9,920million increased 14.2 percent and segment profit margin of 33.1 percent increased 1.0 points compared to the prior year. Theyear-to-year increases in segment profit and profit margin were driven by revenue growth and reflect the benefits of the productivityactions we have taken, partially offset by our organic and inorganic investments in portfolio innovation.## Consulting## ($ in millions)## Yr.-to-Yr.## Yr.-to-Yr.## Percent Change## PercentAdjusted forFor the year ended December 31:20252024 (1)## Change## CurrencyConsulting revenue$21,055$20,6921.8 %0.4 %## Strategy and Technology$11,537$11,4880.4 %(1.0) %## Intelligent Operations9,5189,2043.42.2(1) Recast to reflect January 2025 changes to the reported revenue categories.Consulting revenue of $21,055 million increased 1.8 percent as reported (0.4 percent adjusted for currency) in 2025 compared to- 2024. Strategy and Technology revenue increased 0.4 percent as reported, but decreased 1.0 percent adjusted for currency.Intelligent Operations increased 3.4 percent as reported and 2.2 percent adjusted for currency. Consulting inflected back to growthin the second half of 2025 driven by our clients' demand for key offerings, including business application transformation, applicationmigration and modernization, application operations, and cybersecurity, as clients prioritize cost efficiency while continuing toinvest in AI-enabled transformation. In addition, we are expanding our impact through Client Zero, applying our own practicalexperience with generative AI, combined with our domain expertise, to help clients drive productivity and efficiency andoperationalize AI at scale.17