110111## Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsNotes to the Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies## International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary CompaniesPlan Assets Retirement-related benefit plan assets are recognized and measured at fair value. Because of the inherent uncertainty of valuations, these fair value measurements may not necessarily reflect the amounts the company could realize in current market transactions.## Item## Description of AssumptionsChanges in discount rate assumptions impact net periodic (income)/cost and the PBO.## Discount RateFor the U.S. and certain non-U.S. countries, a portfolio of high-quality corporate bonds is used to constructInvestment Policies and Strategies The investment objectives of the Qualified PPP portfolio are designed to generate returns that will enable the plan to meet its future obligations. The precise amount for which these obligations will be settled depends on future events, including the retirement dates and life expectancy of the plan participants. The obligations are estimated using actuarial assumptions, based on the current economic environment and other pertinent factors described above. The Qualified PPP portfolio’s investment strategy balances the requirement to generate returns, using assets with higher expected returns such as equity securities, with the need to control risk in the portfolio with less volatile assets, such as fixed-income securities. Risks include, among others, inflation, volatility in equity values and changes in interest rates that could cause the plan to become underfunded, thereby increasing its dependence on contributions from the company. To mitigate any potential concentration risk, careful consideration is given to balancing the portfolio among industry sectors, companies and geographies, taking into account interest rate sensitivity, dependence on economic growth, currency and other factors that affect investment returns. In 2025, the company changed its investment strategy, modifying its asset allocation, primarily by increasing return-seeking assets and reducing debt securities. The change was designed to further improve expected returns for the plan. The Qualified PPP portfolio’s target allocation is 55 percent fixed-income securities, 15 percent equity securities, and 30 percent other return-seeking assets including hedge funds, infrastructure equity, and other debt securities.a yield curve. Cash flows from the company’s expected benefit obligation payments are matched to theyield curve to derive the discount rates.In other non-U.S. countries where the markets for high-quality long-term bonds are not as well developed,a portfolio of long-term government bonds is used as a base, and a credit spread is added to simulatecorporate bond yields at these maturities in the jurisdiction of each plan. This is the benchmark fordeveloping the respective discount rates.Represents the expected long-term returns on plan assets based on the calculated market-related value of## Expected Long-plan assets and considers long-term expectations for future returns and the investment policies and## Term Returns onstrategies discussed on page 111. These rates of return are developed and tested for reasonableness## Plan Assets## against historical returns by the company.The use of expected returns may result in pension income that is greater or less than the actual return ofthose plan assets in a given year. Over time, however, the expected long-term returns are designed toapproximate the actual long-term returns, and therefore result in a pattern of income or loss recognition thatmore closely matches the pattern of the services provided by the employees.The difference between actual and expected returns is recognized as a component of net loss or gain inThe assets are managed by professional investment firms and investment professionals who are employees of the company. They are bound by investment mandates determined by the company’s management and are measured against specific benchmarks. Among these managers, consideration is given, but not limited to, balancing security concentration, issuer concentration, investment style and reliance on particular active and passive investment strategies.AOCI, which is amortized as a component of net periodic (income)/cost over the service lives or lifeexpectancy of the plan participants, depending on the plan, provided such amounts exceed certainthresholds provided by accounting standards. The market-related value of plan assets recognizes changesin the fair value of plan assets systematically over a five-year period in the expected return on plan assets## line in net periodic (income)/cost.Market liquidity risks are tightly controlled, with $1,753 million of the Qualified PPP portfolio as of December 31, 2025 invested in private market assets consisting of private equity, credit, real estate and infrastructure equity, which are less liquid than publicly traded securities and are primarily measured at net asset value (NAV). In addition, the Qualified PPP portfolio had $1,720 million in commitments for future investments in private markets to be made over a number of years. These commitments are expected to be funded from plan assets.The projected long-term rate of return on plan assets for 2026 is 5.75 percent for U.S. and 5.07 percent for## non-U.S. DB Plans.Compensation rate increases are determined based on the company’s long-term plans for such increases.## Rate of## CompensationMortality assumptions are based on life expectancy and death rates for different types of participants and## Increases andare periodically updated based on actual experience.## MortalityDerivatives are used as an effective means to achieve investment objectives and/or as a component of the plan’s risk management strategy. The primary reasons for the use of derivatives are fixed income management, including duration, interest rate management and credit exposure, cash equitization and to manage currency strategies.## AssumptionsBenefits for participants in Cash Balance Plans are calculated using a cash balance formula. An assumption## Interest Creditingunderlying this formula is an interest crediting rate, which impacts both net periodic (income)/cost and the## RatePBO. This provides the basis for projecting the expected interest rate that plan participants will earn on theThe non-U.S. Plans investment objectives are similar to those described previously, subject to local regulations. The weighted- average target allocation for the non-U.S. plans is 57 percent fixed-income securities, 18 percent equity securities, 17 percent insurance contracts, and 9 percent other investments, which is consistent with the allocation decisions made by the company’s management. In some countries, a higher percentage allocation to fixed income is required to manage solvency and funding risks. In others, the responsibility for managing the investments typically lies with a board that may include up to 50 percent of members elected by employees and retirees. This can result in slight differences compared with the strategies previously described. The percentage of non-U.S. plans investment in assets that are less liquid is consistent with the U.S. plan. The use of derivatives is also consistent with the U.S. plan and mainly for currency hedging, interest rate risk management, credit exposure and alternative investment strategies.benefits that they are expected to receive in the following year.For nonpension postretirement benefit plans, the company determines healthcare cost trend rates based## Healthcare Coston medical cost inflation expectations in each market and IBM’s plan characteristics. The healthcare cost## Trend Ratetrend rate is an important consideration when setting future expectations for plan costs or benefitobligations, taking into account the terms of the plan which limit the company’s future obligations to the## participants.The company’s U.S. healthcare cost trend rate assumption for 2026 is 7.38 percent and is expected todecrease to 4.50 percent over approximately 17 years.The company’s nonpension postretirement benefit plans are underfunded or unfunded. For some plans, the company maintains a nominal, highly liquid trust fund balance to ensure timely benefit payments.