28## Management Discussion International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary CompaniesPRIOR YEAR IN REVIEW This section provides the year-to-year performance by revenue categories within the Software and Consulting reportable segments between 2024 and 2023, reflecting the changes made in the first quarter of 2025. These changes did not impact our Consolidated Financial Statements or our reportable segments. The revenue categories are reported on a comparable basis for all periods. Refer to note C, "Revenue Recognition," for additional information. In addition, refer to the “Year in Review” section of our “Management Discussion,” (pages 16 to 27), of our 2024 Annual Report on Form 10-K for a discussion of all other details of our financial condition and results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2024 compared to the year ended December 31, 2023.## Software## ($ in millions)For the year ended December 31:2024 (1)2023 (1)## Yr.-to-Yr. Percent Change## Yr.-to-Yr. Percent Change Adjusted for Currency## Software revenue$27,085$25,0118.3 %9.0 %## Hybrid Cloud$6,490$5,82711.4 %12.0 %## Automation6,5586,0089.19.8## Data5,6295,4613.13.6## Transaction Processing8,4087,7149.09.9(1) Recast to reflect January 2025 changes to the reported revenue categories.Software revenue of $27,085 million increased 8.3 percent as reported (9.0 percent adjusted for currency) in 2024 compared to the prior year, driven by growth across the portfolio. Our Software revenue performance in 2024 reflected growth in our high-value, recurring revenue base, as well as our transactional software revenue.Revenue performance by line of business in 2024 compared to 2023 was as follows:Hybrid Cloud (Red Hat) revenue of $6,490 million increased 11.4 percent as reported (12.0 percent adjusted for currency) in 2024 compared to the prior year, led by double-digit growth in OpenShift and Ansible, and solid growth in RHEL. OpenShift continued its strong performance with annual recurring revenue of $1.4 billion exiting 2024. Automation revenue of $6,558 million increased 9.1 percent as reported (9.8 percent adjusted for currency), with strength in our SaaS subscription offerings including AIOps and Management. Data revenue of $5,629 million increased 3.1 percent as reported (3.6 percent adjusted for currency), reflecting the strength of our offerings across our AI portfolio. Transaction Processing revenue of $8,408 million increased 9.0 percent as reported (9.9 percent adjusted for currency), with performance in 2024 reflecting the combination of clients' growing capacity demands, solid renewal rates, and increased contribution from our generative AI products, including watsonx code assistant for Z.Across Software, our annual recurring revenue (ARR) was $21.3 billion at the end of 2024, which increased approximately $1 billion compared to year end 2023. ARR is a key performance metric management uses to assess the health and growth trajectory of our Software segment, and our ARR for 2024 and 2023 were recast to reflect the first-quarter 2025 update to the ARR calculation to include all recurring revenue within the Software segment. Refer to the “Year in Review” section on page 17 for additional information on the definition of ARR.## Management Discussion## International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies## Consulting## ($ in millions)## Yr.-to-Yr.## Yr.-to-Yr.## Percent Change## PercentAdjusted forFor the year ended December 31:2024 (1)2023 (1)## Change## CurrencyConsulting revenue$20,692$20,884(0.9) %0.6 %## Strategy and Technology$11,488$11,4300.5 %2.0 %## Intelligent Operations9,2049,455(2.7)(1.2)(1) Recast to reflect January 2025 changes to the reported revenue categories.Consulting revenue of $20,692 million decreased 0.9 percent as reported, but increased 0.6 percent adjusted for currency in 2024compared to the prior year. We had growth year to year in our Strategy and Technology offerings with declines in IntelligentOperations as reported and adjusted for currency.Revenue performance by line of business in 2024 compared to 2023 was as follows:Strategy and Technology revenue of $11,488 million increased 0.5 percent as reported (2.0 percent adjusted for currency) year toyear, led by business transformation services and digital transformations including AI and analytics-focused projects, as well asfinance and supply chain transformations. Intelligent Operations revenue of $9,204 million decreased 2.7 percent as reported (1.2percent adjusted for currency) driven by a decline in custom application management services, partially offset by growth in platformengineering services and cloud application management as clients prioritized cloud modernization and cloud-based application## development projects.29