6160Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies## Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements## International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companiesexplicitly identified asset in the arrangement and whether the company, as the lessee, or the client, if the company is the lessor, haslease, the company recognizes finance income on the net investment in the lease and any variable lease payments, which are not included in the net investment in the lease.the right to control the use of that asset.For a direct financing lease, the net investment in the lease is measured similarly to a sales-type lease, however, the net investment in the lease is reduced by any selling profit. In a direct financing lease, the selling profit and initial direct costs are deferred at commencement and recognized over the lease term. The company rarely enters into direct financing leases.Accounting for Leases as a LesseeWhen the company is the lessee, all leases with a term of more than 12 months are recognized as right-of-use (ROU) assets andassociated lease liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. The lease liabilities are measured at the lease commencement dateand determined using the present value of the lease payments not yet paid and the company’s incremental borrowing rate, whichThe estimated residual value represents the estimated fair value of the equipment under lease at the end of the lease. The company estimates the future fair value of leased equipment by using historical models, analyzing the current market for new and used equipment and obtaining forward-looking product information such as marketing plans and technology innovations. The company optimizes the recovery of residual values by extending lease arrangements with, or selling leased equipment to existing clients, and periodically reassesses the realizable value of its lease residual values. Anticipated decreases in specific future residual values that are considered to be other-than-temporary are recognized immediately upon identification and are recorded as adjustments to the residual value estimate and unearned income, which reduces current period and future period financing income, respectively.approximates the rate at which the company would borrow on a secured basis in the country where the lease was executed. Theinterest rate implicit in the lease is generally not determinable in transactions where the company is the lessee. The ROU assetequals the lease liability adjusted for any initial direct costs (IDCs), prepaid rent and lease incentives. The company’s variable leasepayments generally relate to payments tied to various indexes, non-lease components and payments above a contractual minimumfixed amount.Operating leases are included in operating right-of-use assets–net, current operating lease liabilities and operating lease liabilitiesin the Consolidated Balance Sheet. Finance leases are included in property, plant and equipment, short-term debt and long-termCommon Stock Common stock refers to the $.20 par value per share capital stock as designated in the company’s Certificate of Incorporation. Treasury stock is accounted for using the cost method. When treasury stock is reissued, the value is computed and recorded using a weighted-average basis.debt in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. The lease term includes options to extend or terminate the lease when it is reasonablycertain that the company will exercise that option.The company made a policy election to not recognize leases with a lease term of 12 months or less in the Consolidated Balance## Sheet.Earnings Per Share of Common Stock Earnings per share (EPS) is computed using the two-class method, which determines EPS for each class of common stock and participating securities according to dividends and dividend equivalents and their respective participation rights in undistributed earnings. Basic EPS of common stock is computed by dividing net income by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding for the period. Diluted EPS of common stock is computed on the basis of the weighted-average number of shares of common stock plus the effect of dilutive potential common shares outstanding during the period using the treasury stock method. Dilutive potential common shares include outstanding stock awards, convertible notes and stock options.For all asset classes, the company has elected the lessee practical expedient to combine lease and non-lease components (e.g.,maintenance services) and account for the combined unit as a single lease component. A significant portion of the company’s leaseportfolio is real estate, which are mainly accounted for as operating leases, and are primarily used for corporate offices and datacenters. The average term of the real estate leases is approximately five years. The company also has equipment leases, such as ITand semiconductor research equipment, which have lease terms that generally range from five to ten years. For certain of theseoperating and finance leases, the company applies a portfolio approach to account for the lease assets and lease liabilities.Accounting for Leases as a LessorThe company typically enters into leases as an alternative means of realizing value from equipment that it would otherwise sell.Assets under lease primarily include new and used IBM equipment. IBM equipment generally consists of IBM Z, Power and Storage## products.Lease payments due to IBM are typically fixed and paid in equal installments over the lease term. The majority of the company’sleases do not contain variable payments that are dependent on an index or a rate. Variable lease payments that do not depend on anindex or a rate (e.g., property taxes), that are paid directly by the company and are reimbursed by the client, are recorded asrevenue, along with the related cost, in the period in which collection of these payments is probable. Payments that are madedirectly by the client to a third party, including certain property taxes and insurance, are not considered part of variable paymentsand therefore are not recorded by the company. The company has made a policy election to exclude from consideration in contracts## all collections from sales and other similar taxes.The company’s payment terms for leases are typically unconditional. Therefore, in an instance when the client requests to terminatethe lease prior to the end of the lease term, the client would typically be required to pay the remaining lease payments in full. At theend of the lease term, the company allows the client to either return the equipment, purchase the equipment at the then-current fairmarket value or at a pre-stated purchase price, or renew the lease based on mutually agreed upon terms.When lease arrangements include multiple performance obligations, the company allocates the consideration in the contractbetween the lease components and the non-lease components on a relative standalone selling price basis.## Sales-Type and Direct Financing LeasesFor a sales-type or direct financing lease, the carrying amount of the asset is derecognized from inventory and a net investment inthe lease is recorded. For a sales-type lease, the net investment in the lease is measured at commencement date as the sum of thelease receivable and the estimated residual value of the equipment less unearned income and allowance for credit losses. Anyselling profit or loss arising from a sales-type lease is recorded at lease commencement. Selling profit or loss is presented on agross basis when the company enters into a lease to realize value from a product that it would otherwise sell in its ordinary course ofbusiness. For segment reporting, the net investment in sales-type leases excluding the allowance for credit losses is recognized ashardware revenue in the Infrastructure segment, while the estimated residual value less related unearned income is recognized as areduction in revenue in the Other revenue category and represents the portion of fair value retained by the company. In transactionswhere the company enters into a lease for the purpose of generating revenue by providing financing, the selling profit or loss ispresented on a net basis. Under a sales-type lease, initial direct costs are expensed at lease commencement. Over the term of the