14## Management Discussion International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary CompaniesClient Financing: lease, installment payment plan and loan financing to end-user clients for terms generally up to seven years. Assets financed are primarily new and used IBM hardware, software and services.Commercial Financing: short-term working capital financing to business partners and distributors primarily of IBM products and services. The company has an existing agreement with a third-party investor to sell IBM short-term commercial financing receivables on a revolving basis. Refer to note K, “Financing Receivables,” for additional information.## Management Discussion## International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies## Human CapitalThe table below presents the company's employees and related workforce at December 31, 2025.## (In thousands)For the year ended December 31:IBM/wholly owned subsidiariesLess-than-wholly owned subsidiaries## Complementary (1)(1) The complementary workforce is an approximation of equivalent full-time employees hired under temporary, part-time and limited-term employmentarrangements to meet specific business needs in a flexible and cost-effective manner.Our highly skilled global workforce leverages expertise in AI and hybrid cloud to drive clients' digital transformations and mission-critical operations. Our employees are among the world’s leading experts in hybrid cloud, AI, quantum computing, cybersecurity,and industry-specific solutions, reflecting our commitment to innovation and talent as key drivers of success.At IBM, we’re committed to attracting, developing and retaining top talent in a dynamic and competitive environment. We groundthis commitment in an inclusive workplace that fuels business growth, sustainable business outcomes and differentiated value toour clients. Our employee value proposition combines competitive compensation and career opportunities to develop and deliverinnovative technologies that transform businesses worldwide. Our value proposition and talent strategy are designed to retain our## talented professionals.We are continuously transforming and developing our talent through a combination of skill-based hiring and advanced learning tobuild an AI-first enterprise. In 2025, we focused on adding skills in key areas such as consulting and technical expertise, while alsoscaling our capacity in strategically important markets and workflows. We’re committed to upskilling and reskilling our workforce,with a strong emphasis on AI skilling, and our digital learning and career platforms are designed to provide employees with theresources they need to build strategic skills and advance their careers. We believe that sharing candid feedback is essential tohelping our employees develop their skills and elevate their performance, which is critical to our ability to transform and evolve. Westrive to help all employees build new capabilities and create career mobility along their professional journeys.We are committed to pay alignment and transparency that complies fully with all antidiscrimination laws, fostering an environmentof fair and competitive pay without regard to gender, race, or other personal characteristics protected by law. Statistical payalignment assessments are conducted across all countries with IBM employees, reinforcing our dedication to our longstanding fair## pay practices.Employee engagement is a key indicator of employee well-being and dedication to our mission, purpose and values. We conduct anannual engagement survey to assess the health of our growth culture and employee sentiment. In 2025, over 200,000 employeesglobally participated in the survey, providing valuable insights that we are using to enhance the employee experience, transform ourculture, and improve our interactions with clients and partners. Consistent with prior years, more than eight out of ten employeeswho participated in the survey responded that they felt engaged at work. In addition, nearly nine out of ten participants reportedfeeling empowered to be their authentic selves at work.IBM maintains a comprehensive Health & Safety Management System designed to provide a safe work environment and minimizework-related injuries and illnesses. The company offers global programs supporting physical, mental, and financial well-being,including confidential 24/7 mental health resources through employee assistance programs. These inclusive programs are tailoredto meet the needs of a global workforce. Additional initiatives include resilience and ergonomics training and digital tools thatpromote healthy habits.2025264.38.713.815