5859## Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsNotes to the Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies## International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companiescalculates an estimate of the potential loss and the probability of loss. For those accounts in which the loss is probable, the company records a specific reserve.## InventoryRaw materials, work in process and finished goods are stated at the lower of average cost or net realizable value.Collectively Evaluated–The company determines its allowances for credit losses for collectively evaluated financing receivables (unallocated) based on two portfolio segments: client financing receivables and commercial financing receivables. The company further segments the portfolio into three classes: Americas, Europe/Middle East/Africa (EMEA) and Asia Pacific.## Notes and Accounts Receivable—Trade and Contract AssetsThe company classifies the right to consideration in exchange for products or services transferred to a client as either a receivable ora contract asset. A receivable is a right to consideration that is unconditional as compared to a contract asset which is a right toconsideration that is conditional upon factors other than the passage of time. The majority of the company’s contract assetsFor client financing receivables, the company uses a credit loss model to calculate allowances based on its internal loss experience and current conditions and forecasts, by class of financing receivable. The company records an unallocated reserve that is calculated by applying a reserve rate to its portfolio, excluding accounts that have been individually evaluated and specifically reserved. This reserve rate is based upon credit rating, probability of default, term and loss history. The allowance is adjusted quarterly for expected recoveries of amounts that were previously written off or are expected to be written off. Recoveries cannot exceed the aggregated amount of the previous write-off or expected write-off.represent unbilled amounts related to design and build services contracts when the cost-to-cost method of revenue recognition isutilized, revenue recognized exceeds the amount billed to the client, and the right to consideration is subject to milestonecompletion or client acceptance. Contract assets are generally classified as current and are recorded on a net basis with deferred## income (i.e., contract liabilities) at the contract level.## Financing ReceivablesFinancing receivables primarily consist of client loan and installment payment receivables (loans) and investment in sales-type andThe company considers forward-looking macroeconomic variables such as gross domestic product, unemployment rates, equity prices and corporate profits when quantifying the impact of economic forecasts on its client financing receivables allowance for expected credit losses. Macroeconomic variables may vary by class of financing receivables based on historical experiences, portfolio composition and current environment. The company also considers the impact of current conditions and economic forecasts relating to specific industries, geographical areas, and client credit ratings, in addition to performing a qualitative review of credit risk factors across the portfolio. Under this approach, forecasts of these variables over two years are considered reasonable and supportable. Beyond two years, the company reverts to long-term average loss experience. Forward-looking estimates require the use of judgment, particularly in times of economic uncertainty.direct financing leases (collectively referred to as client financing receivables) and commercial financing receivables. Leases areaccounted for in accordance with lease accounting standards. Loans, which are generally unsecured, are primarily for IBMhardware, software and services. Commercial financing receivables are primarily for working capital financing to business partnersand distributors of IBM products and services. Financing receivables are classified as either held for sale or held for investment,depending on the company’s intent and ability to hold the underlying contract for the foreseeable future or until maturity or payoff.Loans and commercial financing receivables are recorded at amortized cost, which approximates fair value.## Transfers of Financial AssetsThe company enters into arrangements to sell certain financial assets (primarily notes and accounts receivable–trade and financingThe portfolio of commercial financing receivables is short term in nature and any allowance for these assets is estimated based on a combination of write-off history and current economic conditions, excluding any individually evaluated accounts.receivables) to third-party financial institutions. For a transfer of financial assets to be considered a sale, the asset must be legallyisolated from the company and the purchaser must have control of the asset (“true sale”). Determining whether all the true salerequirements have been met includes an evaluation of legal considerations, the extent of the company’s continuing involvement## Other Credit-Related Policieswith the assets transferred and any other relevant consideration. When the true sale criteria are met, the company derecognizes thecarrying value of the financial asset transferred and recognizes a net gain or loss on the sale. The proceeds from these arrangementsPast Due–The company views client financing receivables as past due when payment has not been received after 90 days, measured from the original billing date.are reflected as cash provided by operating activities in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. If the true sale criteria are notmet, the transfer is considered a secured borrowing and the financial asset remains on the Consolidated Balance Sheet withproceeds from the sale recognized as debt and recorded as cash flows from financing activities in the Consolidated Statement ofNon-Accrual–Non-accrual assets include those receivables (impaired loans or nonperforming leases) with specific reserves and other accounts for which it is likely that the company will be unable to collect all amounts due according to original terms of the lease or loan agreement. Interest income recognition is discontinued on these receivables. Cash collections are first applied as a reduction to principal outstanding. Any cash received in excess of principal payments outstanding is recognized as interest income. Receivables may be removed from non-accrual status, if appropriate, based upon changes in client circumstances, such as a sustained history of payments.## Cash Flows.Arrangements to sell notes and accounts receivable–trade are used in the normal course of business as part of the company’s cashand liquidity management. Facilities primarily in the U.S. and several countries in Europe enable the company to sell certain notesand accounts receivable–trade, without recourse, to third parties in order to manage credit, collection, concentration and currencyrisk. The gross amounts sold (the gross proceeds) under these arrangements were $3.8 billion, $4.2 billion and $3.4 billion for theyears ended December 31, 2025, 2024 and 2023, respectively. Within the notes and accounts receivables–trade sold andWrite-Off–Receivable losses are charged against the allowance in the period in which the receivable is deemed uncollectible. Subsequent recoveries, if any, are credited to the allowance. Write-offs of receivables and associated reserves occur to the extent that the customer is no longer in operation and/or there is no reasonable expectation of additional collections or repossession.derecognized from the Consolidated Balance Sheet, $0.3 billion, $0.9 billion and $0.5 billion remained uncollected from customersat December 31, 2025, 2024 and 2023, respectively. The fees and the net gains and losses associated with the transfer of notesand accounts receivables–trade were not material for any of the periods presented. Refer to note K, “Financing Receivables,” for## more information on transfers of financing receivables.Supplier Financing The company has supplier finance programs with third-party financial institutions where the company agrees to pay the financial institutions the stated amounts of invoices from participating suppliers on the originally invoiced maturity date, which have an average term of 90 to 120 days, consistent with the company's standard payment terms. The financial institutions offer earlier payment of the invoices at the sole discretion of the supplier for a discounted amount. The company does not provide secured legal assets or other forms of guarantees under the arrangements. The company is not a party to the arrangements between its suppliers and the financial institutions. These obligations are recognized as accounts payable in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. The obligations outstanding under these programs at December 31, 2025 and 2024 were $123 million and $110 million, respectively. The amount of the invoices received under these obligations during the twelve months ended December 31, 2025 and 2024 were $468 million and $512 million, respectively. The amount of invoices paid under these obligations during the twelve months ended December 31, 2025 and 2024 were $455 million and $503 million, respectively.## Allowance for Credit LossesReceivables are recorded concurrent with billing and shipment of a product and/or delivery of a service to customers. An allowancefor uncollectible trade receivables and contract assets, if needed, is estimated based on specific customer situations, current andfuture expected economic conditions, past experiences of losses, as well as an assessment of potential recoverability of the balance## due.The company estimates its allowances for expected credit losses for financing receivables by considering past events, including anyhistorical default, historical concessions and resulting troubled debt restructurings, current economic conditions, any non-freestanding mitigating credit enhancements, and certain forward-looking information, including reasonable and supportableforecasts. The methodologies that the company uses to calculate its financing receivables reserves, which are applied consistentlyto its different portfolios, are as follows:Leases The company conducts business as both a lessee and a lessor. In its ordinary course of business, the company enters into leases as a lessee for property, plant and equipment. The company is also the lessor of certain equipment, mainly through its Financing segment.Individually Evaluated–The company reviews all financing receivables considered at risk quarterly, and performs an analysis basedupon current information available about the client, such as financial statements, news reports, published credit ratings, currentmarket-implied credit analysis, as well as collateral net of repossession cost, prior collection history and current and futureexpected economic conditions. For loans that are collateral dependent, impairment is measured using the fair value of the collateralWhen procuring goods or services, or upon entering into a contract with its clients, the company determines whether an arrangement contains a lease at its inception. As part of that evaluation, the company considers whether there is an implicitly orwhen foreclosure is probable. Using this information, the company determines the expected cash flow for the receivable and