7071## Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsNotes to the Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies## International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies2024 In 2024, the company completed seven acquisitions within the Software segment and four acquisitions within the Consulting segment at an aggregate cost of $3,530 million.## ($ in millions)## Total## Consideration (1)Cash paid for outstanding HashiCorp common stock$7,212The following table reflects the purchase price related to these acquisitions and the resulting purchase price allocations as of December 31, 2025. Net purchase price adjustments recorded in 2025 were not material.Cash paid for HashiCorp equity awards178$7,390## Cash considerationFair value of stock-based compensation awards attributable to pre-acquisition services40## ($ in millions)## Settlement of pre-existing relationships3## Other Acquisitions## Amortization Life (in Years)StreamSets and webMethods$7,433## Total consideration## Current assets$362 $121(1) As part of assets acquired, the company received $929 million of cash and cash equivalents and $331 million of short-term marketable securities from## HashiCorp at the acquisition date.## Property, plant and equipment/noncurrent assets1931## Intangible assetsGoodwill of $4,540 million and $144 million was assigned to the Software and Consulting segments, respectively. It is expectedthat none of the goodwill will be deductible for tax purposes. The overall weighted-average useful life of the identified amortizable## N/A## Goodwill1,074894intangible assets acquired was 9.8 years. In connection with the acquisition, the company issued and assumed 1.7 million stock1—7## Client relationships680167awards with a fair value of $381 million. Refer to note T, "Stock-Based Compensation," for additional information. The acquisition5—7Completed technology550181was integrated into the Software segment.1—7## Trademarks456Other Acquisitions–Goodwill of $781 million and $473 million was assigned to the Consulting and Software segments, respectively.$2,730 $1,401Total assets acquiredIt is expected that 3 percent of the goodwill will be deductible for tax purposes. The overall weighted-average useful life of the## Current liabilities20168identified amortizable intangible assets acquired was 6.6 years.## Noncurrent liabilities25478Transaction Announced–On December 8, 2025, the company announced its intent to acquire all of the outstanding shares of$455 $145Total liabilities assumedConfluent, Inc. (Confluent). IBM's and Confluent's combined portfolios will enable enterprises to deploy generative and agentic AI$2,275 $1,255## Total purchase pricebetter and faster by providing trusted communication and data flow between environments, applications and APIs. Under the termsof the definitive agreement, Confluent shareholders on record immediately prior to the effective time on the closing date will receive## N/A–Not applicable$31 per share in cash, representing a total enterprise value of approximately $11 billion. On February 12, 2026, Confluentstockholders voted to approve the merger with IBM. The transaction is expected to close by the middle of 2026, subject toStreamSets and webMethods–On July 1, 2024, the company completed the acquisition of StreamSets and webMethods from Software AG for approximately $2.3 billion (€2.13 billion) in cash. StreamSets added new data ingestion capabilities to IBM's data platform and webMethods brought integration platform-as-a-service (iPaaS) capabilities to IBM’s automation solutions. Goodwill of $1,074 million was assigned to the Software segment. It is expected that 56 percent of the goodwill will be deductible for tax purposes. The overall weighted-average useful life of the identified amortizable intangible assets acquired was 7.0 years. The acquisition was integrated into the Software segment. Prior to the acquisition, the company entered into foreign currency derivative contracts which expired by June 28, 2024. Refer to note S, “Derivative Financial Instruments,” for financial impacts and additional information.regulatory approvals and other customary closing conditions. Upon closing, Confluent will be integrated into the Software segment.Other Acquisitions–Goodwill of $463 million, $423 million and $8 million was assigned to the Consulting, Software and Infrastructure segments, respectively. It is expected that 5 percent of the goodwill will be deductible for tax purposes. The overall weighted-average useful life of the identified amortizable intangible assets acquired was 6.7 years.