5455## Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsNotes to the Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies## International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary CompaniesThe current portion of the retirement and nonpension postretirement benefit obligations represents the actuarial present value of benefits payable in the next 12 months exceeding the fair value of plan assets, measured on a plan-by-plan basis. This obligation is recorded in compensation and benefits in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.## Government AssistanceThe company receives grants from governments and government agencies (government) in support of certain of the company’sbusiness activities, primarily related to research, job creation, or job training. Grants are generally received in the form of cash aseither a recovery for expenses incurred or as an incentive for meeting certain requirements as agreed to in the grant, with termsNet periodic pension and nonpension postretirement benefit cost/(income) is recorded in the Consolidated Income Statement and includes service cost, interest cost, expected return on plan assets, amortization of prior service costs/(credits) and (gains)/losses previously recognized as a component of other comprehensive income/(loss) (OCI) and amortization of the net transition asset remaining in accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss) (AOCI). The service cost component of net benefit cost is recorded in Cost, SG&A and R&D in the Consolidated Income Statement (unless eligible for capitalization) based on the employees’ respective functions. The other components of net benefit cost are presented separately from service cost within other (income) and expense in the Consolidated Income Statement.ranging from one to five years. Grants are recorded as credits against Cost, SG&A and R&D in the Consolidated Income Statementbased on the nature of the grant and the expense being offset once the conditions and restrictions of the grant have been met andpayment has been received from the government. When a grant is received before conditions of the grant have been met, the grantis recorded in other accrued expenses and liabilities or other liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. For the years endedDecember 31, 2025 and 2024, grants recorded in the company’s Consolidated Financial Statements were not material.## Business Combinations and Intangible Assets Including GoodwillThe company accounts for business combinations using the acquisition method and accordingly, the identifiable assets acquired,(Gains)/losses and prior service costs/(credits) are recognized as a component of OCI in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income as they arise. Those (gains)/losses and prior service costs/(credits) are subsequently recognized as a component of net periodic cost/(income) pursuant to the recognition and amortization provisions of applicable accounting guidance. (Gains)/losses arise as a result of differences between actual experience and assumptions or as a result of changes in actuarial assumptions. Prior service costs/(credits) represent the cost of benefit changes attributable to prior service granted in plan amendments.the liabilities assumed, and any noncontrolling interest in the acquiree are generally recorded at their acquisition date fair values.Contract assets and contract liabilities are measured in accordance with the guidance on revenue recognition. Goodwill representsthe excess of the purchase price over the fair value of net assets, including the amount assigned to identifiable intangible assets.The primary drivers that generate goodwill are the value of synergies between the acquired entities and the company and theacquired assembled workforce, neither of which qualifies as a separately identifiable intangible asset. Goodwill recorded in anacquisition is assigned to applicable reporting units based on expected revenues or expected cash flows. Identifiable intangibleassets with finite lives are amortized over their useful lives. Amortization of completed technology is recorded in cost, andThe measurement of benefit obligations and net periodic cost/(income) is based on estimates and assumptions approved by the company’s management. These valuations reflect the terms of the plans and use participant-specific information such as compensation, age and years of service, as well as certain assumptions, including estimates of discount rates, expected return on plan assets, rate of compensation increases, interest crediting rates and mortality rates.amortization of all other intangible assets is recorded in SG&A expense. Acquisition-related costs, including advisory, legal,accounting, valuation and pre-close and other costs, are typically expensed in the periods in which the costs are incurred and arerecorded in SG&A expense. The results of operations of acquired businesses are included in the Consolidated Financial Statements## from the acquisition date.Defined Contribution Plans The company’s contribution for defined contribution plans is recorded when the employee renders service to the company. The charge is recorded in Cost, SG&A and R&D in the Consolidated Income Statement based on the employees’ respective functions.## ImpairmentLong-lived assets, other than goodwill, are tested for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that thecarrying amount may not be recoverable. The impairment test is typically based on undiscounted cash flows and, if impaired, theasset is written down to fair value based on either discounted cash flows or appraised values. Goodwill is tested for impairment atStock-Based Compensation Stock-based compensation represents the cost related to stock-based awards granted to employees. The company measures stock-based compensation cost at the grant date, based on the estimated fair value of the award and recognizes the cost on a straight-line basis (net of estimated forfeitures) over the employee requisite service period. The company grants its employees Restricted Stock Units (RSUs), including Retention Restricted Stock Units (RRSUs); Performance Share Units (PSUs); and stock options. RSUs are stock awards granted to employees that entitle the holder to shares of common stock as the award vests, typically over a one- to four-year period. PSUs are stock awards where the number of shares ultimately received by the employee depends on performance and market results for 2025 awards, and solely on performance results for prior awards. These awards are measured against specified targets and typically vest over a three-year period. Over the performance period, the number of shares that will be issued is adjusted based upon the probability of achievement of performance and market-based targets. The ultimate number of shares issued and the related compensation cost recognized as expense will be based on a comparison of the final performance and market-based metrics to the specified targets. Dividend equivalents are not paid on the stock awards described above. The fair value of the awards is determined and fixed on the grant date based on the company’s stock price, adjusted for the exclusion of dividend equivalents where applicable and for PSUs assumes that performance and market-based targets will be achieved. The company estimates the fair value of stock options using a Black-Scholes valuation model. Stock-based compensation cost is recorded in Cost, SG&A, and R&D in the Consolidated Income Statement based on the employees’ respective functions.least annually, in the fourth quarter and whenever changes in circumstances indicate an impairment may exist. The goodwillimpairment test is performed at the reporting unit level, which is generally at the level of or one level below an operating segment.## Depreciation and AmortizationProperty, plant and equipment are carried at cost and depreciated over their estimated useful lives using the straight-line method.The estimated useful lives of certain depreciable assets are as follows: buildings, 30 to 50 years; building equipment, 10 to 20years; land improvements, 20 years; production, engineering, office and other equipment, 2 to 20 years; and information technologyequipment, 1.5 to 6 years. Leasehold improvements are amortized over the shorter of their estimated useful lives or the relatedlease term, rarely exceeding 25 years.As noted within the “Software Costs” section of this note, capitalized software costs are amortized on a straight-line basis overperiods ranging up to three years. Other intangible assets are amortized over periods between one year and 20 years.## EnvironmentalThe cost of internal environmental protection programs that are preventative in nature are expensed as incurred. When a cleanupprogram becomes likely, and it is probable that the company will incur cleanup costs and those costs can be reasonably estimated,the company accrues remediation costs for known environmental liabilities.The company records deferred tax assets for awards that result in deductions on the company’s income tax returns, based on the amount of compensation cost recognized and the relevant statutory tax rates. The differences between the deferred tax assets recognized for financial reporting purposes and the actual tax deduction reported on the income tax return are recorded as a benefit or expense to the provision for income taxes in the Consolidated Income Statement.## Defined Benefit Pension and Nonpension Postretirement Benefit PlansThe funded status of the company’s defined benefit pension plans and nonpension postretirement benefit plans (retirement-relatedbenefit plans) is recognized in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. The funded status is measured as the difference between the fairvalue of plan assets and the benefit obligation at December 31, the measurement date. For defined benefit pension plans, theIncome Taxes Income tax expense is based on reported income before income taxes. Deferred income taxes reflect the tax effect of temporary differences between asset and liability amounts that are recognized for financial reporting purposes and the amounts that are recognized for income tax purposes. These deferred taxes are measured by applying currently enacted tax laws. The company includes Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income (GILTI) in measuring deferred taxes. Valuation allowances are recognized to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount that will more likely than not be realized. In assessing the need for a valuation allowance, management considers all available evidence for each jurisdiction including past operating results, estimates of future taxable income and the feasibility of ongoing tax planning strategies/actions. When the company changes its determination as to the amount of deferred tax assets that can be realized, the valuation allowance is adjusted with a corresponding impact to income tax expense in the period in which such determination is made.benefit obligation is the projected benefit obligation (PBO), which represents the actuarial present value of benefits expected to bepaid upon retirement based on employee services already rendered and estimated future compensation levels. For the nonpensionpostretirement benefit plans, the benefit obligation is the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation (APBO), which representsthe actuarial present value of postretirement benefits attributed to employee services already rendered. The fair value of planassets represents the current market value of assets held in an irrevocable trust fund, held for the sole benefit of participants, whichare invested by the trust fund. Overfunded plans, with the fair value of plan assets exceeding the benefit obligation, are aggregatedand recorded as a prepaid pension asset equal to this excess. Underfunded plans, with the benefit obligation exceeding the fairvalue of plan assets, are aggregated and recorded as a retirement and nonpension postretirement benefit obligation equal to this## excess.