89## Management Discussion## Management Discussion International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies## International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies## MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SNAPSHOTMacroeconomic Environment The strength of our portfolio and the resiliency of our business model underpinned by our software-led hybrid cloud and AI strategy position us well to deliver sustainable and profitable growth. While the current economic and trade environment remains dynamic, we expect technology to continue to drive productivity, resilience, and flexibility - particularly in hybrid cloud, AI, and mission- critical infrastructure. These technologies fundamentally change how businesses scale, compete, and operate and serve as a key source of competitive advantage. This was reflected in our strong performance in 2025. Our disciplined strategy and durable business model enable us to create long-term value for our partners and clients.## ($ and shares in millions except per share amounts)## Yr.-to-Yr.## Percent/Margin2024 (1)## ChangeFor year ended December 31:2025## Revenue (2)7.6 %$67,535$62,753## Gross profit margin58.2 %56.7 %1.5 pts.## Total expense and other (income)(2.6) %$28,968$29,754For the year ended December 31, 2025, movements in global currencies continued to impact our reported year-to-year revenue and profit. We execute hedging programs which defer, but do not eliminate, the impact of currency. The (gains)/losses from these hedging programs are reflected primarily in other (income) and expense. Refer to “Currency Rate Fluctuations,” for additional information.Income from continuing operations before income taxes78.2 %$10,328$5,797Provision for/(benefit from) income taxes from continuing operations (1)11.1 %$(242)$(218)Income from continuing operations (1)75.7 %$10,571$6,015Income from continuing operations margin15.7 %9.6 %6.1 pts.## Income from discontinued operations, net of tax162.5 %$22$8Financial Performance Summary In 2025, we delivered performance above expectations across all key financial metrics, reporting $67.5 billion in revenue, net income from continuing operations of $10.6 billion, and diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of $11.14. On an operating (non-GAAP) basis, we reported earnings of $11.0 billion and diluted earnings per share of $11.59. We generated $13.2 billion in cash from operations and $14.7 billion in free cash flow, and delivered shareholder returns of $6.3 billion in dividends. Our 2025 performance reflects our deep focus on the business fundamentals with continued revenue growth, gross profit margin expansion and strong cash generation, and a balance sheet with financial flexibility to support our business.## Net income75.9 %$10,593$6,023Earnings per share from continuing operations–assuming dilution73.5 %$11.14$6.42Consolidated earnings per share–assuming dilution73.7 %$11.17$6.43Weighted-average shares outstanding–assuming dilution1.2 %$948.7$937.2## Assets (3)10.7 %$ 151,880$ 137,175## Liabilities (3)8.5 %$ 119,139$ 109,783## Equity (3)19.5 %$32,740$27,393Total revenue grew 7.6 percent as reported and 6.1 percent adjusted for currency compared to the prior year. Software revenue delivered growth of 10.6 percent as reported (9.1 percent adjusted for currency), reflecting the strength of our diversified portfolio and the investments we have made in innovation in our organic software and through acquisitions. Consulting revenue increased 1.8 percent as reported (0.4 percent adjusted for currency). Infrastructure revenue increased 12.1 percent as reported (10.4 percent adjusted for currency), reflecting strength in our new IBM z17.(1) Refer to “Organization of Information” on page 6 for additional information.(2) Year-to-year revenue growth of 6 percent adjusted for currency.## (3) At December 31.From a geographic perspective, Americas revenue increased 6.6 percent as reported (6.9 percent adjusted for currency). Europe/ Middle East/Africa (EMEA) increased 14.2 percent as reported (9.0 percent adjusted for currency). Asia Pacific decreased 0.4 percent as reported (0.7 percent adjusted for currency).The following table provides the company’s operating (non-GAAP) earnings for 2025 and 2024. Refer to page 27 for additional## information.## ($ in millions except per share amounts)Gross margin of 58.2 percent increased 1.5 points year to year with gross margin expansion driven by portfolio mix and productivity actions. Operating (non-GAAP) gross margin of 59.5 percent increased 1.7 points compared to the prior year due to the same dynamics.## Yr.-to-Yr.For year ended December 31:20252024## Percent ChangeNet income as reported (1)$10,593 $6,02375.9 %## Income from discontinued operations, net of tax228162.5 %Total expense and other (income) decreased 2.6 percent in 2025 versus the prior year primarily driven by the prior-year pension settlement charges of $3.1 billion and savings from productivity actions; partially offset by our organic and inorganic investments in portfolio innovation, the effects of currency and prior-year gains from the sale of certain QRadar Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) assets and from the divestiture of The Weather Company assets. Total operating (non-GAAP) expense and other (income) increased 9.6 percent year to year, due to our organic and inorganic investments in portfolio innovation, the effects of currency and prior-year gains from the sale of certain QRadar Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) assets and from the divestiture of The Weather Company assets; partially offset by savings from productivity actions.Income from continuing operations (1)$10,571 $6,01575.7 %## Non-operating adjustments (net of tax)Acquisition-related charges1,5341,4565.4 %Non-operating retirement-related costs/(income) (1)492,668(98.2) %## U.S. tax reform impacts(1,161)(455)155.2 %Operating (non-GAAP) earnings$10,993 $9,68413.5 %## Diluted operating (non-GAAP) earnings per share$11.59 $10.3312.2 %Pre-tax income from continuing operations of $10.3 billion increased 78.2 percent and pre-tax margin was 15.3 percent, an increase of 6.1 points as compared to 2024. Performance in 2025 was driven by revenue growth, portfolio mix and increased productivity while providing investment flexibility. In addition, our year-to-year performance reflects lower retirement related costs driven by the pension settlement charges in 2024; partially offset by the prior-year gains from the sale of certain QRadar SaaS assets and from the divestiture of The Weather Company assets. The continuing operations effective tax rate for 2025 was (2.3) percent compared to (3.8) percent in 2024. The current-year effective tax rate was primarily driven by the resolution of certain tax audit matters and the effective tax rate for 2024 was driven by the tax impact of the pension settlement charges and the resolution of certain tax audit matters. Net income from continuing operations was $10.6 billion in 2025 compared with $6.0 billion in the prior year and net income from continuing operations margin was 15.7 percent, an increase of 6.1 points year to year.(1) Refer to “Organization of Information” on page 6 for additional information.Operating (non-GAAP) pre-tax income from continuing operations of $12.7 billion increased 13.4 percent year to year and the operating (non-GAAP) pre-tax margin from continuing operations increased 1.0 point to 18.8 percent primarily driven by the same dynamics as described above, excluding the impact from the prior-year pension settlement charges. The operating (non-GAAP) effective tax rate for 2025 was 13.5 percent compared to 13.6 percent in 2024. Operating (non-GAAP) income from continuing operations of $11.0 billion increased 13.5 percent and the operating (non-GAAP) income margin from continuing operations of 16.3 percent was up 0.8 points year to year.