8## Management Discussion International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies## MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SNAPSHOT## ($ and shares in millions except per share amounts)For year ended December 31:20252024 (1)## Yr.-to-Yr. Percent/Margin Change## Revenue (2) Gross profit margin$67,53558.2 %$62,75356.7 %7.6 %1.5 pts.## Total expense and other (income)$28,968$29,754(2.6) %Income from continuing operations before income taxes Provision for/(benefit from) income taxes from continuing operations (1) Income from continuing operations (1)$$$10,328(242)10,571$$$5,797(218)6,01578.2 %11.1 %75.7 %Income from continuing operations margin15.7 %9.6 %6.1 pts.## Income from discontinued operations, net of tax$22$8162.5 %## Net income$10,593$6,02375.9 %Earnings per share from continuing operations–assuming dilution$11.14$6.4273.5 %Consolidated earnings per share–assuming dilution$11.17$6.4373.7 %Weighted-average shares outstanding–assuming dilution Assets (3) Liabilities (3) Equity (3)$948.7$ 151,880$ 119,139$32,740$937.2$ 137,175$ 109,783$27,3931.2 %10.7 %8.5 %19.5 %(1) Refer to “Organization of Information” on page 6 for additional information.(2) Year-to-year revenue growth of 6 percent adjusted for currency.## (3) At December 31.The following table provides the company’s operating (non-GAAP) earnings for 2025 and 2024. Refer to page 27 for additional information.## ($ in millions except per share amounts)For year ended December 31:20252024## Yr.-to-Yr. Percent ChangeNet income as reported (1) Income from discontinued operations, net of tax$10,593 $226,023875.9 %162.5 %Income from continuing operations (1) Non-operating adjustments (net of tax)$10,571 $6,01575.7 %Acquisition-related charges Non-operating retirement-related costs/(income) (1)1,534491,4562,6685.4 %(98.2) %## U.S. tax reform impacts(1,161)(455)155.2 %Operating (non-GAAP) earnings$10,993 $9,68413.5 %## Diluted operating (non-GAAP) earnings per share$11.59 $10.3312.2 %(1) Refer to “Organization of Information” on page 6 for additional information.## Management Discussion## International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies## Macroeconomic EnvironmentThe strength of our portfolio and the resiliency of our business model underpinned by our software-led hybrid cloud and AI strategyposition us well to deliver sustainable and profitable growth. While the current economic and trade environment remains dynamic,we expect technology to continue to drive productivity, resilience, and flexibility - particularly in hybrid cloud, AI, and mission-critical infrastructure. These technologies fundamentally change how businesses scale, compete, and operate and serve as a keysource of competitive advantage. This was reflected in our strong performance in 2025. Our disciplined strategy and durablebusiness model enable us to create long-term value for our partners and clients.For the year ended December 31, 2025, movements in global currencies continued to impact our reported year-to-year revenue andprofit. We execute hedging programs which defer, but do not eliminate, the impact of currency. The (gains)/losses from thesehedging programs are reflected primarily in other (income) and expense. Refer to “Currency Rate Fluctuations,” for additional## information.## Financial Performance SummaryIn 2025, we delivered performance above expectations across all key financial metrics, reporting $67.5 billion in revenue, netincome from continuing operations of $10.6 billion, and diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of $11.14. On anoperating (non-GAAP) basis, we reported earnings of $11.0 billion and diluted earnings per share of $11.59. We generated $13.2billion in cash from operations and $14.7 billion in free cash flow, and delivered shareholder returns of $6.3 billion in dividends. Our2025 performance reflects our deep focus on the business fundamentals with continued revenue growth, gross profit marginexpansion and strong cash generation, and a balance sheet with financial flexibility to support our business.Total revenue grew 7.6 percent as reported and 6.1 percent adjusted for currency compared to the prior year. Software revenuedelivered growth of 10.6 percent as reported (9.1 percent adjusted for currency), reflecting the strength of our diversified portfolioand the investments we have made in innovation in our organic software and through acquisitions. Consulting revenue increased 1.8percent as reported (0.4 percent adjusted for currency). Infrastructure revenue increased 12.1 percent as reported (10.4 percentadjusted for currency), reflecting strength in our new IBM z17.From a geographic perspective, Americas revenue increased 6.6 percent as reported (6.9 percent adjusted for currency). Europe/Middle East/Africa (EMEA) increased 14.2 percent as reported (9.0 percent adjusted for currency). Asia Pacific decreased 0.4percent as reported (0.7 percent adjusted for currency).Gross margin of 58.2 percent increased 1.5 points year to year with gross margin expansion driven by portfolio mix and productivityactions. Operating (non-GAAP) gross margin of 59.5 percent increased 1.7 points compared to the prior year due to the same## dynamics.Total expense and other (income) decreased 2.6 percent in 2025 versus the prior year primarily driven by the prior-year pensionsettlement charges of $3.1 billion and savings from productivity actions; partially offset by our organic and inorganic investments inportfolio innovation, the effects of currency and prior-year gains from the sale of certain QRadar Software-as-a-Service (SaaS)assets and from the divestiture of The Weather Company assets. Total operating (non-GAAP) expense and other (income) increased9.6 percent year to year, due to our organic and inorganic investments in portfolio innovation, the effects of currency and prior-yeargains from the sale of certain QRadar Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) assets and from the divestiture of The Weather Company assets;partially offset by savings from productivity actions.Pre-tax income from continuing operations of $10.3 billion increased 78.2 percent and pre-tax margin was 15.3 percent, anincrease of 6.1 points as compared to 2024. Performance in 2025 was driven by revenue growth, portfolio mix and increasedproductivity while providing investment flexibility. In addition, our year-to-year performance reflects lower retirement related costsdriven by the pension settlement charges in 2024; partially offset by the prior-year gains from the sale of certain QRadar SaaSassets and from the divestiture of The Weather Company assets. The continuing operations effective tax rate for 2025 was (2.3)percent compared to (3.8) percent in 2024. The current-year effective tax rate was primarily driven by the resolution of certain taxaudit matters and the effective tax rate for 2024 was driven by the tax impact of the pension settlement charges and the resolutionof certain tax audit matters. Net income from continuing operations was $10.6 billion in 2025 compared with $6.0 billion in the prioryear and net income from continuing operations margin was 15.7 percent, an increase of 6.1 points year to year.Operating (non-GAAP) pre-tax income from continuing operations of $12.7 billion increased 13.4 percent year to year and theoperating (non-GAAP) pre-tax margin from continuing operations increased 1.0 point to 18.8 percent primarily driven by the samedynamics as described above, excluding the impact from the prior-year pension settlement charges. The operating (non-GAAP)effective tax rate for 2025 was 13.5 percent compared to 13.6 percent in 2024. Operating (non-GAAP) income from continuingoperations of $11.0 billion increased 13.5 percent and the operating (non-GAAP) income margin from continuing operations of 16.3percent was up 0.8 points year to year.9