114Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary CompaniesThe following tables present the reconciliation of the beginning and ending balances of Level 3 assets for the years ended December 31, 2025 and 2024 for the U.S. Plan.## ($ in millions)## Corporate Bonds## Other (1)## Balance at January 1, 2025$186$7$Return on assets held at end of year3(6)Return on assets sold during the year(1)0## Purchases, sales and settlements, net(30)2## Transfers, net——## Balance at December 31, 2025$157$3$## ($ in millions)## Corporate Bonds## Other (1)## Balance at January 1, 2024$709$13$Return on assets held at end of year4(2)Return on assets sold during the year160## Purchases, sales and settlements, net(545)(9)## Transfers, net15## Balance at December 31, 2024$186$7$(1) Includes equity securities and private equity. Prior-year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the change in current year presentation.Non-U.S. Plans Level 3 assets beginning and ending balances, including related returns and other activity for the years ended December 31, 2025 and 2024 were not material.Valuation Techniques The following is a description of the valuation techniques used to measure plan assets at fair value. There were no changes in valuation techniques during 2025 and 2024.Equity securities are valued at the closing price reported on the stock exchange on which the individual securities are traded. IBM common stock is valued at the closing price reported on the New York Stock Exchange. Mutual funds are typically valued based on quoted market prices. These assets are generally classified as Level 1.The fair value of fixed-income securities is typically estimated using pricing models, quoted prices of securities with similar characteristics or discounted cash flows and are generally classified as Level 2. If available, they are valued using the closing price reported on the major market on which the individual securities are traded.Cash includes money market accounts that are valued at their cost plus interest on a daily basis, which approximates fair value. Short-term investments represent securities with original maturities of one year or less. These assets are classified as Level 1 or Level 2.Real estate valuations require significant judgment due to the absence of quoted market prices, the inherent lack of liquidity and the long-term nature of such assets. These assets are initially valued at cost and are reviewed periodically utilizing available and relevant market data, including appraisals, to determine if the carrying value of these assets should be adjusted. These assets are classified as Level 3.Exchange-traded derivatives are valued at the closing price reported on the exchange on which the individual securities are traded, while forward contracts are valued using a mid-close price. Over-the-counter derivatives are typically valued using pricing models. The models require a variety of inputs, including, for example, yield curves, credit curves, measures of volatility and foreign exchange rates. These assets are classified as Level 1 or Level 2 depending on availability of quoted market prices.Certain investments are measured at fair value using the net asset value (NAV) per share (or its equivalent) as a practical expedient. These investments, which include commingled funds, hedge funds, private equity and real estate partnerships, are typically valued using the NAV provided by the administrator of the fund and reviewed by the company. The NAV is based on the value of the underlying assets owned by the fund, minus liabilities and divided by the number of shares or units outstanding.## Total## Total193(3)(1)(28)—160722216(554)6193## Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements## International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies## Contributions and Direct Benefit PaymentsIt is the company’s general practice to fund amounts for pensions sufficient to meet the minimum requirements set forth inapplicable employee benefits laws and local tax laws. From time to time, the company contributes additional amounts as it deems## appropriate.The following table presents the contributions made to the non-U.S. DB plans, nonpension postretirement benefit plans, multi-employer plans, DC plans and direct benefit payments for 2025 and 2024. The cash contributions to the multi-employer plansrepresent the annual cost included in the net periodic (income)/cost recognized in the Consolidated Income Statement. Thecompany’s participation in multi-employer plans has no material impact on the company’s financial statements.## ($ in millions)For the years ended December 31:20252024## Non-U.S. DB plans$40$67## Nonpension postretirement benefit plans204194## Multi-employer plans1313DC plans461440## Direct benefit payments599578## Total$1,317$1,291In 2025 and 2024, $204 million and $194 million, respectively, of contributions to the non-U.S. DB plans and U.S. nonpensionpostretirement benefit plans were made in U.S. Treasury securities. Additionally, in 2025 and 2024, contributions of $730 millionand $741 million, respectively, were made to the Active Medical Trust in U.S. Treasury securities. Contributions made with U.S.Treasury securities are considered a non-cash transaction.## Defined Benefit Pension PlansIn 2026, the company is not legally required to make any contributions to the U.S. defined benefit pension plans. However,depending on market conditions, or other factors, the company may elect to make discretionary contributions to the Qualified PPP## during the year.In 2026, the company estimates contributions to its non-U.S. defined benefit and multi-employer plans to be approximately $100million, the majority of which will be contributed to defined benefit pension plans in Japan and Spain. This amount generallyrepresents legally mandated minimum contributions.Financial market performance in 2026 could increase the legally mandated minimum contribution in certain countries which requiremonthly or daily remeasurement of the funded status. The company could also elect to contribute more than the legally mandatedamount based on market conditions or other factors.## Expected Benefit Payments## Defined Benefit Pension Plan Expected PaymentsThe following table presents the total expected benefit payments to defined benefit pension plan participants subsequent to theretirement plan changes, as described in ‘IBM Retirement Plan Changes’ section above. These payments have been estimatedbased on the same assumptions used to measure the plans’ PBO at December 31, 2025 and include benefits attributable toestimated future compensation increases, where applicable.## ($ in millions)## Qualified## Nonqualified## Qualified## Nonqualified## Total Expected## U.S. Plan## U.S. Plans## Non-U.S. Plans## Non-U.S. Plans## Benefit## Payments## Payments## Payments## Payments## Payments2026$1,180 $119 $2,009 $405 $3,71320271,2101161,9383713,63520281,2241141,9203683,62520291,2271111,9063633,60820301,1871081,8773603,5332031-20355,5874898,9591,62916,664The 2026 expected benefit payments to DB pension plan participants not covered by the respective plan assets (underfundedplans) represent a component of compensation and benefits, within current liabilities, in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.115