58Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary CompaniesInventory Raw materials, work in process and finished goods are stated at the lower of average cost or net realizable value.Notes and Accounts Receivable—Trade and Contract Assets The company classifies the right to consideration in exchange for products or services transferred to a client as either a receivable or a contract asset. A receivable is a right to consideration that is unconditional as compared to a contract asset which is a right to consideration that is conditional upon factors other than the passage of time. The majority of the company’s contract assets represent unbilled amounts related to design and build services contracts when the cost-to-cost method of revenue recognition is utilized, revenue recognized exceeds the amount billed to the client, and the right to consideration is subject to milestone completion or client acceptance. Contract assets are generally classified as current and are recorded on a net basis with deferred income (i.e., contract liabilities) at the contract level.Financing Receivables Financing receivables primarily consist of client loan and installment payment receivables (loans) and investment in sales-type and direct financing leases (collectively referred to as client financing receivables) and commercial financing receivables. Leases are accounted for in accordance with lease accounting standards. Loans, which are generally unsecured, are primarily for IBM hardware, software and services. Commercial financing receivables are primarily for working capital financing to business partners and distributors of IBM products and services. Financing receivables are classified as either held for sale or held for investment, depending on the company’s intent and ability to hold the underlying contract for the foreseeable future or until maturity or payoff. Loans and commercial financing receivables are recorded at amortized cost, which approximates fair value.Transfers of Financial Assets The company enters into arrangements to sell certain financial assets (primarily notes and accounts receivable–trade and financing receivables) to third-party financial institutions. For a transfer of financial assets to be considered a sale, the asset must be legally isolated from the company and the purchaser must have control of the asset (“true sale”). Determining whether all the true sale requirements have been met includes an evaluation of legal considerations, the extent of the company’s continuing involvement with the assets transferred and any other relevant consideration. When the true sale criteria are met, the company derecognizes the carrying value of the financial asset transferred and recognizes a net gain or loss on the sale. The proceeds from these arrangements are reflected as cash provided by operating activities in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. If the true sale criteria are not met, the transfer is considered a secured borrowing and the financial asset remains on the Consolidated Balance Sheet with proceeds from the sale recognized as debt and recorded as cash flows from financing activities in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.Arrangements to sell notes and accounts receivable–trade are used in the normal course of business as part of the company’s cash and liquidity management. Facilities primarily in the U.S. and several countries in Europe enable the company to sell certain notes and accounts receivable–trade, without recourse, to third parties in order to manage credit, collection, concentration and currency risk. The gross amounts sold (the gross proceeds) under these arrangements were $3.8 billion, $4.2 billion and $3.4 billion for the years ended December 31, 2025, 2024 and 2023, respectively. Within the notes and accounts receivables–trade sold and derecognized from the Consolidated Balance Sheet, $0.3 billion, $0.9 billion and $0.5 billion remained uncollected from customers at December 31, 2025, 2024 and 2023, respectively. The fees and the net gains and losses associated with the transfer of notes and accounts receivables–trade were not material for any of the periods presented. Refer to note K, “Financing Receivables,” for more information on transfers of financing receivables.Allowance for Credit Losses Receivables are recorded concurrent with billing and shipment of a product and/or delivery of a service to customers. An allowance for uncollectible trade receivables and contract assets, if needed, is estimated based on specific customer situations, current and future expected economic conditions, past experiences of losses, as well as an assessment of potential recoverability of the balance due.The company estimates its allowances for expected credit losses for financing receivables by considering past events, including any historical default, historical concessions and resulting troubled debt restructurings, current economic conditions, any non- freestanding mitigating credit enhancements, and certain forward-looking information, including reasonable and supportable forecasts. The methodologies that the company uses to calculate its financing receivables reserves, which are applied consistently to its different portfolios, are as follows:Individually Evaluated–The company reviews all financing receivables considered at risk quarterly, and performs an analysis based upon current information available about the client, such as financial statements, news reports, published credit ratings, current market-implied credit analysis, as well as collateral net of repossession cost, prior collection history and current and future expected economic conditions. For loans that are collateral dependent, impairment is measured using the fair value of the collateral when foreclosure is probable. Using this information, the company determines the expected cash flow for the receivable and## Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements## International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companiescalculates an estimate of the potential loss and the probability of loss. For those accounts in which the loss is probable, thecompany records a specific reserve.Collectively Evaluated–The company determines its allowances for credit losses for collectively evaluated financing receivables(unallocated) based on two portfolio segments: client financing receivables and commercial financing receivables. The companyfurther segments the portfolio into three classes: Americas, Europe/Middle East/Africa (EMEA) and Asia Pacific.For client financing receivables, the company uses a credit loss model to calculate allowances based on its internal loss experienceand current conditions and forecasts, by class of financing receivable. The company records an unallocated reserve that iscalculated by applying a reserve rate to its portfolio, excluding accounts that have been individually evaluated and specificallyreserved. This reserve rate is based upon credit rating, probability of default, term and loss history. The allowance is adjustedquarterly for expected recoveries of amounts that were previously written off or are expected to be written off. Recoveries cannotexceed the aggregated amount of the previous write-off or expected write-off.The company considers forward-looking macroeconomic variables such as gross domestic product, unemployment rates, equityprices and corporate profits when quantifying the impact of economic forecasts on its client financing receivables allowance forexpected credit losses. Macroeconomic variables may vary by class of financing receivables based on historical experiences,portfolio composition and current environment. The company also considers the impact of current conditions and economicforecasts relating to specific industries, geographical areas, and client credit ratings, in addition to performing a qualitative review ofcredit risk factors across the portfolio. Under this approach, forecasts of these variables over two years are considered reasonableand supportable. Beyond two years, the company reverts to long-term average loss experience. Forward-looking estimates require## the use of judgment, particularly in times of economic uncertainty.The portfolio of commercial financing receivables is short term in nature and any allowance for these assets is estimated based on acombination of write-off history and current economic conditions, excluding any individually evaluated accounts.## Other Credit-Related PoliciesPast Due–The company views client financing receivables as past due when payment has not been received after 90 days,measured from the original billing date.Non-Accrual–Non-accrual assets include those receivables (impaired loans or nonperforming leases) with specific reserves andother accounts for which it is likely that the company will be unable to collect all amounts due according to original terms of thelease or loan agreement. Interest income recognition is discontinued on these receivables. Cash collections are first applied as areduction to principal outstanding. Any cash received in excess of principal payments outstanding is recognized as interest income.Receivables may be removed from non-accrual status, if appropriate, based upon changes in client circumstances, such as asustained history of payments.Write-Off–Receivable losses are charged against the allowance in the period in which the receivable is deemed uncollectible.Subsequent recoveries, if any, are credited to the allowance. Write-offs of receivables and associated reserves occur to the extentthat the customer is no longer in operation and/or there is no reasonable expectation of additional collections or repossession.## Supplier FinancingThe company has supplier finance programs with third-party financial institutions where the company agrees to pay the financialinstitutions the stated amounts of invoices from participating suppliers on the originally invoiced maturity date, which have anaverage term of 90 to 120 days, consistent with the company's standard payment terms. The financial institutions offer earlierpayment of the invoices at the sole discretion of the supplier for a discounted amount. The company does not provide secured legalassets or other forms of guarantees under the arrangements. The company is not a party to the arrangements between its suppliersand the financial institutions. These obligations are recognized as accounts payable in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. Theobligations outstanding under these programs at December 31, 2025 and 2024 were $123 million and $110 million, respectively.The amount of the invoices received under these obligations during the twelve months ended December 31, 2025 and 2024 were$468 million and $512 million, respectively. The amount of invoices paid under these obligations during the twelve months endedDecember 31, 2025 and 2024 were $455 million and $503 million, respectively.## LeasesThe company conducts business as both a lessee and a lessor. In its ordinary course of business, the company enters into leases asa lessee for property, plant and equipment. The company is also the lessor of certain equipment, mainly through its Financing## segment.When procuring goods or services, or upon entering into a contract with its clients, the company determines whether anarrangement contains a lease at its inception. As part of that evaluation, the company considers whether there is an implicitly or59