32## Management Discussion International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary CompaniesTherefore, management includes presentations of both free cash flow and net cash from operating activities that exclude the effect of Financing receivables.The following is management’s view of cash flows for 2025, 2024 and 2023 prepared in a manner consistent with the description above.## ($ in billions)For the year ended December 31:20252024## Net cash from operating activities per GAAP$13.2$13.4$## Less: change in Financing receivables(3.2)(0.4)Net cash from operating activities, excluding Financing receivables16.413.9## Capital expenditures, net(1.6)(1.1)## Free cash flow14.712.7Change in Financing receivables(3.2)(0.4)## Acquisitions(8.3)(3.3)## Divestitures0.00.7## Dividends(6.3)(6.1)Change in total debt2.9(0.9)## Other(0.7)(1.0)Effect of exchange rate changes on cash, cash equivalents and restricted## cash0.4(0.4)Change in cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash and short-term## marketable securities$(0.3) $1.3$From the perspective of how management views cash flow, in 2025, after investing $1.6 billion in net capital investments, we generated free cash flow of $14.7 billion, an increase of $2.0 billion versus the prior year. The year-to-year increase in free cash flow primarily reflects current year performance-related improvements within net income; partially offset by higher net capital expenditures including a prior year reduction driven by the cash proceeds from the sale of certain QRadar SaaS assets. In 2025, we invested $8.3 billion in acquisitions, including the acquisition of HashiCorp, and continued to return value to shareholders with $6.3 billion in dividends.IBM’s Board of Directors considers the dividend payment on a quarterly basis. In the second quarter of 2025, the Board of Directors increased the company’s quarterly common stock dividend from $1.67 to $1.68 per share.Events that could temporarily change the historical cash flow dynamics discussed previously include significant changes in operating results, material changes in geographic sources of cash, unexpected adverse impacts from litigation, future pension funding requirements during periods of severe downturn in the capital markets or the timing of tax payments. Whether any litigation has such an adverse impact will depend on a number of variables, which are more completely described in note Q, “Commitments & Contingencies.”As highlighted in the Contractual Obligations table, we expect to make legally mandated pension plan contributions to certain non- U.S. plans of approximately $0.8 billion in the next five years. The 2026 contributions are currently expected to be approximately $0.1 billion. Contributions related to all retirement-related plans are expected to be approximately $1.4 billion in 2026, an increase of approximately $0.1 billion compared to 2025. Refer to “Retirement-Related Plans” within the “Looking Forward” section for additional information. Financial market performance could increase the legally mandated minimum contributions in certain non- U.S. countries that require more frequent remeasurement of the funded status. We are not quantifying any further impact from pension funding because it is not possible to predict future movements in the capital markets or pension plan funding regulations. In 2026, we are not legally required to make any contributions to the U.S. defined benefit pension plans.Our cash flows are sufficient to fund our current operations and obligations, including investing and financing activities such as dividends and debt service. When additional requirements arise, we have several liquidity options available. These options may include the ability to borrow additional funds at reasonable interest rates and utilizing our committed global credit facilities. Our overall shareholder payout remains at a comfortable level, and we remain fully committed to our long-standing dividend policy.202313.91.212.7(1.5)11.21.2(5.1)0.0(6.0)4.5(1.2)0.04.6## Management Discussion## International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies## Contractual Obligations## ($ in millions)## Total Contractual## Payments Due In## Payment Stream20262027–282029–30## After 2030## Long-term debt obligations$61,134 $6,146 $11,451 $9,333 $34,204## Interest on long-term debt obligations24,2052,0783,6022,94115,585## Finance lease obligations (1)1,153279474255144Operating lease obligations (1)3,9589351,342707974## Purchase obligations4,8171,9581,926731202## Other long-term liabilitiesMinimum defined benefit pension planfunding (mandated) (2)80050300450## Excess Savings Plan1,783238489507549## Long-term termination benefits87531110175388## Tax reserves (3)4,50757## Other5506610283300## Total$103,782 $12,119 $19,787 $15,081 $52,345(1) Finance lease obligations are presented on a discounted cash flow basis, whereas operating lease obligations are presented on an undiscounted cash## flow basis.(2) As funded status on plans will vary, obligations for mandated minimum pension payments after 2030 could not be reasonably estimated.(3) These amounts represent the liability for unrecognized tax benefits. We estimate that approximately $57 million of the liability is expected to besettled within the next 12 months. The settlement period for the noncurrent portion of the income tax liability cannot be reasonably estimated as thetiming of the payments will depend on the progress of tax examinations with the various tax authorities; however, it is not expected to be due withinthe next 12 months. Refer to note G, "Taxes," for additional information.Certain contractual obligations reported in the previous table exclude the effects of time value and therefore, may not equal theamounts reported in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. Certain noncurrent liabilities are excluded from the previous table as theirfuture cash outflows are uncertain. This includes deferred taxes, derivatives, deferred income, disability benefits and other sundryitems. Certain obligations related to our divestitures are included.Purchase obligations include all commitments to purchase goods or services of either a fixed or minimum quantity that meet any ofthe following criteria: (1) they are noncancelable, (2) we would incur a penalty if the agreement was canceled, or (3) we must makespecified minimum payments even if we do not take delivery of the contracted products or services (take-or-pay). If the obligationto purchase goods or services is noncancelable, the entire value of the contract is included in the previous table. If the obligation iscancelable, but we would incur a penalty if canceled, the dollar amount of the penalty is included as a purchase obligation.Contracted minimum amounts specified in take-or-pay contracts are also included in the table as they represent the portion of eachcontract that is a firm commitment.In the ordinary course of business, we enter into contracts that specify that we will purchase all or a portion of our requirements of aspecific product, commodity or service from a supplier or vendor. These contracts are generally entered into in order to securepricing or other negotiated terms. They do not specify fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased and, therefore, we do notconsider them to be purchase obligations.Interest on floating-rate debt obligations is calculated using the effective interest rate at December 31, 2025, plus the interest ratespread associated with that debt, if any.## Off-Balance Sheet ArrangementsIn the normal course of business, we may enter into off-balance sheet arrangements such as client financing commitments andguarantees. At December 31, 2025, we had no off-balance sheet arrangements that have, or are reasonably likely to have, amaterial current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results ofoperations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources. Refer to the table above for our contractual obligations, and note Q,“Commitments & Contingencies,” for detailed information about our guarantees, financial commitments and indemnificationarrangements. We do not have retained interests in assets transferred to unconsolidated entities or other material off-balance sheet## interests or instruments.33