36## Management Discussion International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companiesfair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. Judgement in the assessment of qualitative factors of impairment include entity specific factors, industry, market and other macroeconomic conditions, legal and regulatory actions, as well as other individual factors impacting each reporting unit such as loss of key personnel and overall financial performance. If we do not perform a qualitative assessment or if the qualitative assessment indicates that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, we perform a quantitative test.In the quantitative test, we compare the fair value of each reporting unit to its carrying amount. Estimating the fair value of a reporting unit is judgmental in nature and involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions. We estimate the fair value of our reporting units using the income approach. When circumstances warrant, we may also use a combination of the income approach and certain market approaches. Under the income approach, we estimate the fair value of a reporting unit based on the present value of estimated discounted future cash flows. The discounted cash flow methodology includes the use of projections, which require the use of significant estimates and assumptions specific to the reporting unit as well as those based on general economic conditions. Factors specific to each reporting unit include revenue growth rates, gross margins, discount rates, terminal value growth rates, capital expenditures projections, assumed tax rates and other assumptions deemed reasonable by management.After performing the annual goodwill impairment analysis using the qualitative test during the fourth quarter of 2025, the company determined it was not necessary to perform the quantitative goodwill impairment test.Loss Contingencies We are currently involved in various claims and legal proceedings. At least quarterly, we review the status of each significant matter and assess our potential financial exposure. If the potential loss from any claim or legal proceeding is considered probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated, we accrue a liability for the estimated loss. Significant judgment is required in both the determination of probability and the determination as to whether an exposure is reasonably estimable. Because of uncertainties related to these matters, accruals are based only on the best information available at the time. As additional information becomes available, we reassess the potential liability related to our pending claims and litigation and may revise our estimates. These revisions in the estimates of the potential liabilities could have a material impact on our results of operations and financial position.Financing Receivables Allowance for Credit Losses The Financing business reviews its financing receivables portfolio on a regular basis in order to assess collectibility and records adjustments to the allowance for credit losses at least quarterly. A description of the methods used by management to estimate the amount of uncollectible receivables is included in note A, “Significant Accounting Policies.” Factors that could result in actual receivable losses that are materially different from the estimated reserve include significant changes in the economy, or a sudden change in the economic health of a client that represents a significant concentration in Financing’s receivables portfolio.Currency Rate Fluctuations Changes in the relative values of non-U.S. currencies to the U.S. dollar affect our financial results and financial position. Movements in currency, and the fact that we do not hedge 100 percent of our currency exposures, resulted in a currency impact to our revenues, profit and cash flows throughout 2025. We execute a hedging program which defers, versus eliminates, the volatility of currency impacts on our financial results. During periods of sustained movements in currency, the marketplace and competition adjust to the changing rates over time.References to “adjusted for currency” or “constant currency” reflect adjustments based upon a simple mathematical formula. However, this constant currency methodology that we utilize to disclose this information does not incorporate any operational actions that management could take to mitigate fluctuating currency rates. Based on the currency rate movements in 2025, revenue from continuing operations increased 7.6 percent as reported and 6.1 percent at constant currency versus 2024.At December 31, 2025, currency changes resulted in assets and liabilities denominated in most local currencies being translated into more U.S. dollars than at year-end 2024. We use financial hedging instruments to limit specific currency risks related to foreign currency-based transactions.We translate revenue, cost and expense in our non-U.S. operations at current exchange rates in the reported period. Currency translation and hedging contributed approximately $200 million in year-to-year pre-tax income growth and contributed approximately $100 million in year-to-year operating (non-GAAP) pre-tax income growth in 2025. From a segment perspective, in 2025, the impact from currency translation and hedging to our segments profit margin year-to-year growth was not material. Hedging and certain underlying foreign currency transaction gains and losses are allocated to our segment results. Considering the operational responses mentioned above, movements of exchange rates, and the nature and timing of hedging instruments, it is difficult to predict future currency impacts in any particular period.## Management Discussion## International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary CompaniesFor non-U.S. subsidiaries and branches that operate in U.S. dollars or whose economic environment is highly inflationary, translationadjustments are reflected in results of operations. Generally, we manage currency risk in these entities by linking prices and## contracts to U.S. dollars.## Market RiskIn the normal course of business, our financial position is routinely subject to a variety of risks, including the market risk associatedwith interest rate and currency movements on outstanding debt and non-U.S. dollar denominated assets and liabilities as well as## other risks such as collectibility of accounts receivable.We regularly assess these risks and have established policies and business practices to protect against the adverse effects of theseand other potential exposures. As a result, we do not anticipate any material losses from these risks.Our debt, in support of the geographic breadth of our operations and our Financing business, contains an element of market riskfrom changes in interest and currency rates. We manage this risk, in part, through the use of a variety of financial instrumentsincluding derivatives, as described in note S, “Derivative Financial Instruments.”To meet disclosure requirements, we perform a sensitivity analysis to determine the effects that market risk exposures may have on## the fair values of our debt and other financial instruments.The financial instruments that are included in the sensitivity analysis are comprised of our cash and cash equivalents, marketablesecurities, short-term and long-term loans, commercial financing and installment payment receivables, investments, long-term andshort-term debt and derivative financial instruments. Our derivative financial instruments generally include interest rate swaps,## foreign currency swaps, forward contracts, and options.To perform the sensitivity analysis, we assess the risk of loss in fair values from the effect of hypothetical changes in interest ratesand foreign currency exchange rates on market-sensitive instruments. The market values for interest and foreign currency exchangerisks are computed based on the present value of future cash flows as affected by the changes in rates that are attributable to themarket risk being measured. The discount rates used for the present value computations were selected based on market interestand foreign currency exchange rates in effect at December 31, 2025 and 2024. The differences in this comparison are thehypothetical losses associated with each type of risk.Information provided by the sensitivity analysis does not necessarily represent the actual changes in fair value that we would incurunder normal market conditions because, due to practical limitations, all variables other than the specific market risk factor are heldconstant. In addition, the results of the model are constrained by the fact that certain items are specifically excluded from theanalysis, while the financial instruments relating to the financing or hedging of those items are included by definition. Excludeditems include short-term and long-term receivables from sales-type and direct financing leases, forecasted foreign currency cashflows and the company’s net investment in foreign operations. As a consequence, reported changes in the values of some of thefinancial instruments impacting the results of the sensitivity analysis are not matched with the offsetting changes in the values ofthe items that those instruments are designed to finance or hedge.The results of the sensitivity analysis at December 31, 2025 and 2024, are as follows:## Interest Rate RiskA hypothetical 10 percent adverse change in the levels of interest rates, with all other variables held constant, would result in adecrease in the fair value of our financial instruments of approximately $1.1 billion and $0.9 billion at December 31, 2025 and2024, respectively. Changes in the relative sensitivity of the fair value of our financial instrument portfolio for these theoreticalchanges in the level of interest rates from the prior year are primarily driven by changes in debt maturities, interest rate profile and## amount.## Foreign Currency Exchange Rate RiskA hypothetical 10 percent adverse change in the levels of foreign currency exchange rates relative to the U.S. dollar, with all othervariables held constant, would result in a decrease in the fair value of our financial instruments of approximately $1.3 billion at bothDecember 31, 2025 and 2024.## Financing RisksRefer to note K, “Financing Receivables,” for additional information on the financing risks associated with the Financing businessand management’s actions to mitigate such risks.37