54Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary CompaniesGovernment Assistance The company receives grants from governments and government agencies (government) in support of certain of the company’s business activities, primarily related to research, job creation, or job training. Grants are generally received in the form of cash as either a recovery for expenses incurred or as an incentive for meeting certain requirements as agreed to in the grant, with terms ranging from one to five years. Grants are recorded as credits against Cost, SG&A and R&D in the Consolidated Income Statement based on the nature of the grant and the expense being offset once the conditions and restrictions of the grant have been met and payment has been received from the government. When a grant is received before conditions of the grant have been met, the grant is recorded in other accrued expenses and liabilities or other liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. For the years ended December 31, 2025 and 2024, grants recorded in the company’s Consolidated Financial Statements were not material.Business Combinations and Intangible Assets Including Goodwill The company accounts for business combinations using the acquisition method and accordingly, the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed, and any noncontrolling interest in the acquiree are generally recorded at their acquisition date fair values. Contract assets and contract liabilities are measured in accordance with the guidance on revenue recognition. Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of net assets, including the amount assigned to identifiable intangible assets. The primary drivers that generate goodwill are the value of synergies between the acquired entities and the company and the acquired assembled workforce, neither of which qualifies as a separately identifiable intangible asset. Goodwill recorded in an acquisition is assigned to applicable reporting units based on expected revenues or expected cash flows. Identifiable intangible assets with finite lives are amortized over their useful lives. Amortization of completed technology is recorded in cost, and amortization of all other intangible assets is recorded in SG&A expense. Acquisition-related costs, including advisory, legal, accounting, valuation and pre-close and other costs, are typically expensed in the periods in which the costs are incurred and are recorded in SG&A expense. The results of operations of acquired businesses are included in the Consolidated Financial Statements from the acquisition date.Impairment Long-lived assets, other than goodwill, are tested for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. The impairment test is typically based on undiscounted cash flows and, if impaired, the asset is written down to fair value based on either discounted cash flows or appraised values. Goodwill is tested for impairment at least annually, in the fourth quarter and whenever changes in circumstances indicate an impairment may exist. The goodwill impairment test is performed at the reporting unit level, which is generally at the level of or one level below an operating segment.Depreciation and Amortization Property, plant and equipment are carried at cost and depreciated over their estimated useful lives using the straight-line method. The estimated useful lives of certain depreciable assets are as follows: buildings, 30 to 50 years; building equipment, 10 to 20 years; land improvements, 20 years; production, engineering, office and other equipment, 2 to 20 years; and information technology equipment, 1.5 to 6 years. Leasehold improvements are amortized over the shorter of their estimated useful lives or the related lease term, rarely exceeding 25 years.As noted within the “Software Costs” section of this note, capitalized software costs are amortized on a straight-line basis over periods ranging up to three years. Other intangible assets are amortized over periods between one year and 20 years.Environmental The cost of internal environmental protection programs that are preventative in nature are expensed as incurred. When a cleanup program becomes likely, and it is probable that the company will incur cleanup costs and those costs can be reasonably estimated, the company accrues remediation costs for known environmental liabilities.Defined Benefit Pension and Nonpension Postretirement Benefit Plans The funded status of the company’s defined benefit pension plans and nonpension postretirement benefit plans (retirement-related benefit plans) is recognized in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. The funded status is measured as the difference between the fair value of plan assets and the benefit obligation at December 31, the measurement date. For defined benefit pension plans, the benefit obligation is the projected benefit obligation (PBO), which represents the actuarial present value of benefits expected to be paid upon retirement based on employee services already rendered and estimated future compensation levels. For the nonpension postretirement benefit plans, the benefit obligation is the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation (APBO), which represents the actuarial present value of postretirement benefits attributed to employee services already rendered. The fair value of plan assets represents the current market value of assets held in an irrevocable trust fund, held for the sole benefit of participants, which are invested by the trust fund. Overfunded plans, with the fair value of plan assets exceeding the benefit obligation, are aggregated and recorded as a prepaid pension asset equal to this excess. Underfunded plans, with the benefit obligation exceeding the fair value of plan assets, are aggregated and recorded as a retirement and nonpension postretirement benefit obligation equal to this excess.## Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements## International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary CompaniesThe current portion of the retirement and nonpension postretirement benefit obligations represents the actuarial present value ofbenefits payable in the next 12 months exceeding the fair value of plan assets, measured on a plan-by-plan basis. This obligation isrecorded in compensation and benefits in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.Net periodic pension and nonpension postretirement benefit cost/(income) is recorded in the Consolidated Income Statement andincludes service cost, interest cost, expected return on plan assets, amortization of prior service costs/(credits) and (gains)/lossespreviously recognized as a component of other comprehensive income/(loss) (OCI) and amortization of the net transition assetremaining in accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss) (AOCI). The service cost component of net benefit cost is recorded inCost, SG&A and R&D in the Consolidated Income Statement (unless eligible for capitalization) based on the employees’ respectivefunctions. The other components of net benefit cost are presented separately from service cost within other (income) and expense## in the Consolidated Income Statement.(Gains)/losses and prior service costs/(credits) are recognized as a component of OCI in the Consolidated Statement ofComprehensive Income as they arise. Those (gains)/losses and prior service costs/(credits) are subsequently recognized as acomponent of net periodic cost/(income) pursuant to the recognition and amortization provisions of applicable accounting guidance.(Gains)/losses arise as a result of differences between actual experience and assumptions or as a result of changes in actuarialassumptions. Prior service costs/(credits) represent the cost of benefit changes attributable to prior service granted in plan## amendments.The measurement of benefit obligations and net periodic cost/(income) is based on estimates and assumptions approved by thecompany’s management. These valuations reflect the terms of the plans and use participant-specific information such ascompensation, age and years of service, as well as certain assumptions, including estimates of discount rates, expected return onplan assets, rate of compensation increases, interest crediting rates and mortality rates.## Defined Contribution PlansThe company’s contribution for defined contribution plans is recorded when the employee renders service to the company. Thecharge is recorded in Cost, SG&A and R&D in the Consolidated Income Statement based on the employees’ respective functions.## Stock-Based CompensationStock-based compensation represents the cost related to stock-based awards granted to employees. The company measuresstock-based compensation cost at the grant date, based on the estimated fair value of the award and recognizes the cost on astraight-line basis (net of estimated forfeitures) over the employee requisite service period. The company grants its employeesRestricted Stock Units (RSUs), including Retention Restricted Stock Units (RRSUs); Performance Share Units (PSUs); and stockoptions. RSUs are stock awards granted to employees that entitle the holder to shares of common stock as the award vests,typically over a one- to four-year period. PSUs are stock awards where the number of shares ultimately received by the employeedepends on performance and market results for 2025 awards, and solely on performance results for prior awards. These awards aremeasured against specified targets and typically vest over a three-year period. Over the performance period, the number of sharesthat will be issued is adjusted based upon the probability of achievement of performance and market-based targets. The ultimatenumber of shares issued and the related compensation cost recognized as expense will be based on a comparison of the finalperformance and market-based metrics to the specified targets. Dividend equivalents are not paid on the stock awards describedabove. The fair value of the awards is determined and fixed on the grant date based on the company’s stock price, adjusted for theexclusion of dividend equivalents where applicable and for PSUs assumes that performance and market-based targets will beachieved. The company estimates the fair value of stock options using a Black-Scholes valuation model. Stock-based compensationcost is recorded in Cost, SG&A, and R&D in the Consolidated Income Statement based on the employees’ respective functions.The company records deferred tax assets for awards that result in deductions on the company’s income tax returns, based on theamount of compensation cost recognized and the relevant statutory tax rates. The differences between the deferred tax assetsrecognized for financial reporting purposes and the actual tax deduction reported on the income tax return are recorded as a benefitor expense to the provision for income taxes in the Consolidated Income Statement.## Income TaxesIncome tax expense is based on reported income before income taxes. Deferred income taxes reflect the tax effect of temporarydifferences between asset and liability amounts that are recognized for financial reporting purposes and the amounts that arerecognized for income tax purposes. These deferred taxes are measured by applying currently enacted tax laws. The companyincludes Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income (GILTI) in measuring deferred taxes. Valuation allowances are recognized to reducedeferred tax assets to the amount that will more likely than not be realized. In assessing the need for a valuation allowance,management considers all available evidence for each jurisdiction including past operating results, estimates of future taxableincome and the feasibility of ongoing tax planning strategies/actions. When the company changes its determination as to theamount of deferred tax assets that can be realized, the valuation allowance is adjusted with a corresponding impact to income taxexpense in the period in which such determination is made.55