9796Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies## Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements## International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies## Interest Rate RiskEquity Risk Management The company is exposed to market price changes in certain broad market indices and in the company’s own stock primarily related to certain obligations to employees. Changes in the overall value of these employee compensation obligations are recorded in SG&A expense in the Consolidated Income Statement. Although not designated as accounting hedges, the company utilizes derivatives, including equity swaps and futures, to economically hedge the exposures related to its employee compensation obligations. The derivatives are linked to the total return on certain broad market indices or the total return on the company’s common stock, and are recorded at fair value with gains or losses also reported in SG&A expense in the Consolidated Income Statement. At both December 31, 2025 and 2024, the total notional amount of derivative instruments in economic hedges of these compensation obligations was $1.5 billion.## Fixed and Variable Rate BorrowingsThe company issues debt in the global capital markets to fund its operations and financing business. Access to cost-effectivefinancing can result in interest rate mismatches with the underlying assets. To manage these mismatches and to reduce overallinterest cost, the company may use interest-rate swaps to convert specific fixed-rate debt issuances into variable-rate debt (i.e., fairvalue hedges) and to convert specific variable-rate debt issuances into fixed-rate debt (i.e., cash flow hedges). At both December31, 2025 and 2024, the total notional amount of the company’s interest-rate swaps was $6.7 billion. The weighted-averageremaining maturity of these instruments at December 31, 2025 and 2024 was approximately 3.5 years and 4.5 years, respectively.These interest-rate contracts were accounted for as fair value hedges. The company did not have any cash flow hedges relating to## this program outstanding at December 31, 2025 and 2024.Cumulative Basis Adjustments for Fair Value Hedges At December 31, 2025 and 2024, the following amounts were recorded in the Consolidated Balance Sheet related to cumulative basis adjustments for fair value hedges:## Foreign Exchange Risk## Long-Term Investments in Foreign Subsidiaries (Net Investment)A large portion of the company’s foreign currency denominated debt portfolio is designated as a hedge of net investment in major## ($ in millions)foreign subsidiaries to reduce the volatility in stockholders’ equity caused by changes in foreign currency exchange rates in the## At December 31:20252024subsidiaries’ functional currency with respect to the U.S. dollar. At December 31, 2025 and 2024, the carrying value of debt## Short-term debtdesignated as hedging instruments was $16.4 billion and $14.0 billion, respectively. The company also uses foreign currencyCarrying amount of the hedged item$—$(13)derivatives, which may include forward contracts, long-term cross-currency swaps and options, for this risk management purpose.At December 31, 2025 and 2024, the total notional amount of derivative instruments designated as net investment hedges wasCumulative hedging adjustments included in the carrying amount—assets/(liabilities)—(13)$6.9 billion and $6.2 billion, respectively. At both December 31, 2025 and 2024, the weighted-average remaining maturity of these## Long-term debtinstruments was less than one year.Carrying amount of the hedged item(6,656)(6,497)Cumulative hedging adjustments included in the carrying amount—assets/(liabilities) (1)36190## Anticipated Royalties and Cost TransactionsThe company’s operations generate significant nonfunctional currency, third-party vendor payments and intercompany payments(1) Includes $(114) million and $(155) million of hedging adjustments on discontinued hedging relationships at December 31, 2025 and 2024,for royalties and goods and services among the company’s non-U.S. subsidiaries and with the company. In anticipation of these## respectively.foreign currency cash flows and in view of the volatility of the currency markets, the company selectively employs forward contractsto manage its currency risk. These forward contracts are accounted for as cash flow hedges. At December 31, 2025, the maximumlength of time remaining over which the company has hedged its exposure is approximately two years. At December 31, 2025 and2024, the total notional amount of forward contracts designated as cash flow hedges of forecasted royalty and cost transactionswas $10.8 billion and $9.7 billion, respectively. At both December 31, 2025 and 2024, the weighted-average remaining maturity ofthese instruments was less than one year.At December 31, 2025 and 2024, in connection with cash flow hedges of anticipated royalties and cost transactions, there wereunrealized net gains (before taxes) of $4 million and $415 million, respectively, deferred in AOCI. The company estimates that $48million of deferred net losses (before taxes) on derivatives in AOCI at December 31, 2025 will be reclassified to net income withinthe next 12 months, providing an offsetting economic impact against the underlying anticipated transactions.## Foreign Currency Denominated BorrowingsThe company is exposed to exchange rate volatility on foreign currency denominated debt. To manage this risk, the company mayemploy forward contracts or cross-currency swaps to convert the principal, or principal and interest payments of foreign currencydenominated debt to debt denominated in the functional currency of the borrowing entity. These derivatives are accounted for as## cash flow hedges.At December 31, 2025, the maximum length of time remaining over which the company has hedged its exposure was approximatelyfive years. At December 31, 2025 and 2024, the total notional amount of derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges offoreign currency denominated debt was $4.8 billion and $5.0 billion, respectively.At December 31, 2025 and 2024, in connection with forward contracts, there were unrealized net losses (before taxes) of $48million and unrealized net gains (before taxes) of $84 million, respectively, deferred in AOCI. Approximately $88 million of losses(before taxes) related to the initial forward points excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness is expected to be amortized## to other (income) and expense within the next 12 months.## Subsidiary Cash and Foreign Currency Asset/Liability ManagementThe company uses its Global Treasury Centers to manage the cash of its subsidiaries. These centers principally use currency swapsto convert cash flows in a cost-effective manner. In addition, the company uses foreign exchange forward contracts to economicallyhedge, on a net basis, the foreign currency exposure of a portion of the company’s nonfunctional currency assets and liabilities. Theterms of these forward and swap contracts are generally less than one year. The changes in the fair values of these contracts and ofthe underlying hedged exposures are generally offsetting and are recorded in other (income) and expense in the ConsolidatedIncome Statement. At December 31, 2025 and 2024, the total notional amount of derivative instruments in economic hedges offoreign currency exposure was $6.4 billion and $7.4 billion, respectively.