4849## Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsNotes to the Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies## International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companiesfuture and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may be different from these estimates.## NOTE A. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES## Basis of PresentationThe accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements and footnotes of the International Business Machines Corporation (IBM orRevenue The company accounts for a contract with a client when it has written approval, the contract is committed, the rights of the parties, including payment terms, are identified, the contract has commercial substance and consideration is probable of collection.“the company”) have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America(GAAP).Within the financial statements and tables presented, certain columns and rows may not add due to the use of rounded numbers forRevenue is recognized when, or as, control of a promised product or service transfers to a client, in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the company expects to be entitled in exchange for transferring those products or services. If the consideration promised in a contract includes a variable amount, the company estimates the amount to which it expects to be entitled using either the expected value or most likely amount method. The company’s contracts may include terms that could cause variability in the transaction price, including, for example, rebates, volume discounts, service-level penalties, and performance bonuses or other forms of contingent revenue.disclosure purposes. Percentages presented are calculated from the underlying whole-dollar amounts. Certain prior-year amountshave been reclassified to conform to the change in current year presentation. This is annotated where applicable.In the first quarter of 2025, the company made changes to the reported revenue categories within its Software and Consultingreportable segments. These changes did not impact the company's Consolidated Financial Statements or its reportable segments.The revenue categories are reported on a comparable basis for all periods. Refer to note C, “Revenue Recognition,” for additional## information.The company only includes estimated amounts in the transaction price to the extent it is probable that a significant reversal of cumulative revenue recognized will not occur when the uncertainty associated with the variable consideration is resolved. The company may not be able to reliably estimate contingent revenue in certain long-term arrangements due to uncertainties that are not expected to be resolved for a long period of time or when the company’s experience with similar types of contracts is limited. The company’s arrangements infrequently include contingent revenue. Changes in estimates of variable consideration are included in note C, “Revenue Recognition.”The company reported a benefit from income taxes for the years ended December 31, 2025 and 2024. The 2025 tax benefit wasprimarily driven by the resolution of certain tax audit matters. The 2024 tax benefit was driven by the tax impact of the pensionsettlement charges, as described below, and the resolution of certain tax audit matters. Refer to note G, “Taxes,” for additionalinformation. The tax benefits associated with the resolution of certain tax audit matters are primarily reflected within other assets/other liabilities as non-cash adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating activities in the Consolidated## Statement of Cash Flows.The company’s standard billing terms are that payment is due upon receipt of invoice, payable within 30 days. Invoices are generally issued as control transfers and/or as services are rendered. Additionally, in determining the transaction price, the company adjusts the promised amount of consideration for the effects of the time value of money if the billing terms are not standard and the timing of payments agreed to by the parties to the contract provide the client or the company with a significant benefit of financing, in which case the contract contains a significant financing component. As a practical expedient, the company does not account for significant financing components if the period between when the company transfers the promised product or service to the client and when the client pays for that product or service will be one year or less. Most arrangements that contain a financing component are financed through the company’s Financing business and include explicit financing terms.In September 2024, the IBM Personal Pension Plan ("Qualified PPP") irrevocably transferred to an insurer approximately $6 billionof the Qualified PPP’s Defined Benefit (DB) pension obligations and related plan assets. As a result of this transaction, the companyrecognized a pension settlement charge of $2.7 billion ($2.0 billion net of tax) in the third quarter of 2024.In October 2024, IBM Canada LTD (“IBMC”) irrevocably transferred to insurers approximately $1.2 billion of the IBMC IBMRetirement Plan DB pension obligations and related plan assets. As a result of this transaction, the company recognized a pension## settlement charge of $0.4 billion in the fourth quarter of 2024.The pension settlement charges for the year ended December 31, 2024 of $3.1 billion ($2.4 billion net of tax), as described above,The company may include subcontractor services or third-party vendor equipment or software in certain arrangements. In these types of arrangements, revenue from sales of third-party vendor products or services is recorded net of costs when the company is acting as an agent between the client and the vendor, and gross when the company is the principal for the transaction. To determine whether the company is an agent or principal, the company considers whether it obtains control of the products or services before they are transferred to the customer. In making this evaluation, several factors are considered, most notably whether the company has primary responsibility for fulfillment to the client, as well as inventory risk and pricing discretion.were primarily related to the accelerated recognition of accumulated actuarial losses of the plans. The tax benefits associated withthese pension settlement charges were reflected within deferred taxes as an adjustment to reconcile net income to net cashprovided by operating activities in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. Refer to note U, “Retirement-Related Benefits,” for## additional information.Noncontrolling interest amounts of $26 million, $17 million and $16 million, net of tax, for the years ended December 31, 2025,2024 and 2023, respectively, are included as a reduction within other (income) and expense in the Consolidated Income Statement.The company recognizes revenue on sales to solution providers, resellers and distributors (herein referred to as resellers) when the reseller has economic substance apart from the company and the reseller is considered the principal for the transaction with the end-user client.## Principles of ConsolidationThe Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of IBM and its controlled subsidiaries, which are primarily majorityowned. Any noncontrolling interest in the equity of a subsidiary is reported as a component of total equity in the ConsolidatedThe company reports revenue net of any revenue-based taxes assessed by governmental authorities that are imposed on and concurrent with specific revenue-producing transactions.Balance Sheet. Net income and losses attributable to the noncontrolling interest are reported as described above in theConsolidated Income Statement. The accounts of variable interest entities (VIEs) are included in the Consolidated FinancialIn addition to the aforementioned general policies, the following are the specific revenue recognition policies for arrangements with multiple performance obligations and for each major category of revenue.Statements, if required. Investments in business entities in which the company does not have control but has the ability to exercisesignificant influence over operating and financial policies, are accounted for using the equity method and the company’sproportionate share of income or loss is recorded in other (income) and expense. At December 31, 2025 and 2024, equity methodArrangements with Multiple Performance Obligations The company’s global capabilities as a hybrid cloud platform and AI company include services, software, hardware and related financing. The company enters into revenue arrangements that may consist of any combination of these products and services based on the needs of its clients.investments were $60 million and $108 million, respectively. Equity investments in non-publicly traded entities lacking controllingfinancial interest or significant influence are primarily measured at cost, absent other indicators of fair value, net of impairment, ifany. At December 31, 2025 and 2024, equity investments measured at cost were $221 million and $156 million, respectively.Equity method investments and equity investments measured at cost are included in investments and sundry assets in theConsolidated Balance Sheet. The accounting policy for other investments in equity securities is described within the “MarketableThe company continues to develop new products and offerings and their associated consumption and delivery methods, including the use of cloud and as-a-Service models. These are not separate businesses; they are offerings across the segments that address market opportunities in areas such as hybrid cloud, AI, data, analytics and security. Revenue from these offerings follows the specific revenue recognition policies for arrangements with multiple performance obligations and for each major category of revenue, depending on the type of offering, which are comprised of services, software and/or hardware.Securities” section of this note. All intercompany transactions and accounts have been eliminated in IBM’s consolidated financial## results.## Use of EstimatesThe preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions thataffect amounts that are reported in the Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying disclosures. Estimates are made forTo the extent that a product or service in multiple performance obligation arrangements is subject to other specific accounting guidance, such as leasing guidance, that product or service is accounted for in accordance with such specific guidance. For all otherthe following, among others: revenue, costs to complete service contracts, income taxes, pension assumptions, valuation of assetsincluding goodwill and intangible assets, loss contingencies, allowance for credit losses and other matters. These estimates arebased on management’s best knowledge of current events, historical experience, actions that the company may undertake in the