Management Discussion
# International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies

Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations was $11.14 in 2025, which included a benefit from income taxes primarily driven by the resolution of certain tax audit matters, compared with $6.42 in 2024, which included an impact from the pension settlement charges. Refer to "Organization of Information" on page 6 for additional information. Operating (non-GAAP) diluted earnings per share of $11.59 increased 12.2 percent versus 2024.

At December 31, 2025, the balance sheet remained strong with financial flexibility to support and invest in the business. Cash and cash equivalents, restricted cash and marketable securities at year end were $14.5 billion, a decrease of $0.3 billion from December 31, 2024 and debt of $61.3 billion at December 31, 2025 increased $6.3 billion. The company continues to make investments in innovation both organically and through acquisitions, including the HashiCorp acquisition in first-quarter 2025.

Total assets increased $14.7 billion ($11.2 billion adjusted for currency) from December 31, 2024 primarily driven by an increase in goodwill and intangible assets mainly related to the HashiCorp acquisition. Total liabilities increased $9.4 billion ($4.9 billion adjusted for currency) from December 31, 2024 primarily driven by an increase in debt. Total equity of $32.7 billion increased $5.3 billion from December 31, 2024, primarily driven by net income and an increase in common stock; partially offset by dividends paid.

During 2025, we generated $13.2 billion in cash from operating activities, compared to $13.4 billion in 2024. While cash used in financing receivables increased $2.7 billion year to year reflecting business growth, including strength from the z17 sales cycle, we had performance-related improvements within net income driving an increase in cash from operating activities. Our free cash flow was $14.7 billion, an increase of $2.0 billion versus the prior year. Refer to pages 31 to 32 for additional information on free cash flow. Net cash used in investing activities of $10.3 billion increased $5.4 billion compared to the prior year primarily driven by cash used for the HashiCorp acquisition. Net cash used in financing activities of $3.8 billion decreased $3.2 billion compared to 2024, primarily driven by debt.

# DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS

Please refer to IBM’s Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on February 24, 2026, for Item 1A. entitled “Risk Factors.”

IBM is addressing the hybrid cloud and artificial intelligence (AI) opportunity with a platform-centric approach, focused on providing client value through a combination of technology and business expertise. We provide integrated solutions and products that leverage: data, information technology, deep expertise in industries and business processes, with trust and security and a broad ecosystem of partners and alliances. Our hybrid cloud platform and AI technology and services capabilities support clients’ digital transformations and help them engage with their customers and employees in new ways. These solutions draw from an industry-leading portfolio of capabilities in software, consulting services and a deep incumbency in mission-critical systems, all bolstered by one of the world’s leading research organizations.

# IBM Strategy

IBM's strategic focus is hybrid cloud and AI, today’s most transformative technologies. As clients transform their businesses with technology, they seek both technology innovation and domain expertise to translate into real business impact. We have shaped our portfolio to focus on delivering leading technology and business expertise to solve those client needs. As a result, IBM has shifted to higher growth areas as we deliver on that strategy with over 75 percent of our business mix in Software and Consulting.

Our strategy aligns with the needs of our clients. Companies are deploying technology across environments where the business runs, with 86 percent of executives using hybrid cloud architectures to deploy AI (IBM IBV). Leading organizations are embracing a hybrid ‘by design’ approach. This allows them to take advantage of hybrid multi-cloud by minimizing cost and complexity which simplifies innovation and operations. IBM Consulting quantified the value of a hybrid 'by design' approach and showed it delivers over three times higher return on investment.

Companies continue to invest in AI and are demanding results to accelerate achieving their business and operating goals. AI, including AI agents, shows tremendous ability to unlock value by augmenting workflows to improve productivity and accelerating innovation. 80% of executives are increasing investments in agentic AI, with spending expected to nearly triple by 2027 (IBM IBV). AI is inherently hybrid as it needs to inference, govern, and manage multiple models, data flows, and applications that run across the hybrid cloud.

Enterprises that successfully embed hybrid cloud and AI technologies in their businesses are poised to scale for growth. AI simplifies the complexity of hybrid cloud environments through visibility, resource optimization, and automation across platforms and processes. Hybrid 'by design' allows enterprises to leverage common platforms and practices. Hybrid cloud and AI are increasingly fundamental to realizing each other's value.

IBM is uniquely equipped to bring to clients the full value of hybrid cloud and AI. We've worked with enterprises for decades on technology and the business outcomes it powers. IBM leverages this unique combination of technology and expertise to strengthen our leadership in hybrid cloud and AI. We are now extending that approach into quantum computing. Our trusted role in supporting clients' core business transactions gives us unparalleled insight into how their businesses run, exemplified by the mission-criticality of IBM Z. Our clients trust us to deliver innovation and expertise, which we amplify through our extensive partner network.

IBM’s differentiated portfolio value. IBM is strategically positioned to help clients unlock their next chapter of technology-led business growth. It will be built across hybrid multi-cloud and leverage AI. With our portfolio of technology and consulting capabilities, we uniquely help deliver that growth. In quantum, we are already seeing early commercial results with clients.

IBM Software develops market-leading technology that delivers innovation and productivity with capabilities that enable end-to-end enterprise use cases, client usage, consumption, and expansion. We deliver this value in four major areas. Hybrid Cloud (Red Hat), built on open-source technologies, unifies on-prem, public clouds, private clouds, and edge computing to scale applications and AI. Data, underpinned by watsonx with built-in governance and compliance, enables clients to use their data in real time and embed enterprise-ready AI into applications and business processes. Automation, including the FinOps portfolio with Apptio, helps clients drive transparency, value, and cost reduction in technology. Capabilities such as HashiCorp Terraform allow clients to operate and automate IT to build, deploy and manage hybrid applications and infrastructure. Transaction Processing powers IBM Z to deliver unmatched resiliency, scalability, security, availability and real-time fraud detection for our clients' mission-critical workloads. Clients can use AI and AI agents directly on IBM Z to simplify operations. All capabilities support hybrid cloud deployment with security and AI embedded throughout. This software portfolio drives demand for consulting and helps clients build hybrid environments on our infrastructure.

IBM Consulting provides Strategy &#x26; Technology services and Intelligent Operations services that help clients achieve their most important business goals – including how to be more productive, accelerate growth, strengthen resilience, and drive innovation. We deliver deep domain and industry capabilities to deploy hybrid cloud and AI with platforms from IBM and our strategic partners, including Adobe, AWS, Microsoft, Oracle, Palo Alto Networks, Salesforce, SAP and others. Our clients rely on us to use these.