Management Discussion
# International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies

# OVERVIEW

The financial section of the International Business Machines Corporation (IBM or “the company”) 2025 Annual Report includes the Management Discussion, the Consolidated Financial Statements and the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. This Overview is designed to provide the reader with some perspective regarding the information contained in the financial section.

# Organization of Information

- The Management Discussion is designed to provide readers with an overview of the business and a narrative on our financial results and certain factors that may affect our future prospects from the perspective of management. The “Management Discussion Snapshot” presents an overview of the key performance drivers in 2025.
- Beginning with the “Year in Review,” the Management Discussion contains the results of operations for each reportable segment of the business, a discussion of our financial position and a discussion of cash flows as reflected in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. “Prior Year in Review,” provides a year-to-year comparison of the revenue category performance for the Software and Consulting reportable segments between 2024 and 2023, consistent with the changes described below. Management Discussion also includes: “Looking Forward” and “Liquidity and Capital Resources,” the latter of which includes a description of management’s definition and use of free cash flow.
- The Consolidated Financial Statements provide an overview of income and cash flow performance and financial position.
- The Notes follow the Consolidated Financial Statements. Among other items, the Notes contain our accounting policies, revenue information, acquisitions and divestitures, certain commitments and contingencies and retirement-related plans information.
- In the first quarter of 2025, we made changes to the reported revenue categories within our Software and Consulting reportable segments. These changes did not impact our Consolidated Financial Statements or our reportable segments. The revenue categories are reported on a comparable basis for all periods presented. Refer to note C, "Revenue Recognition," for additional information.
- We reported a benefit from income taxes for the years ended December 31, 2025 and 2024. The 2025 tax benefit was primarily driven by the resolution of certain tax audit matters. The 2024 tax benefit was driven by the tax impact of the pension settlement charges, as described below, and the resolution of certain tax audit matters. Refer to note G, “Taxes,” for additional information.
- In 2024, as a result of the irrevocable transfer to insurers of a portion of the U.S. and non-U.S. defined benefit pension obligations and related plan assets, we recognized pension settlement charges of $3.1 billion ($2.4 billion net of tax). This reduced 2024 diluted earnings per share from continuing operations and consolidated diluted earnings per share by $2.57 and $2.56, respectively. As the charges were non-operating and non-cash, they did not impact our operating (non-GAAP) earnings or cash flow results. Refer to note U, “Retirement-Related Benefits,” for additional information.
- The references to “adjusted for currency” or “at constant currency” in the Management Discussion do not include operational impacts that could result from fluctuations in foreign currency rates. When we refer to growth rates at constant currency or adjust such growth rates for currency, it is done so that certain financial results can be viewed without the impact of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, thereby facilitating period-to-period comparisons of business performance. Financial results adjusted for currency are calculated by translating current period activity in local currency using the comparable prior-year period’s currency conversion rate. This approach is used for countries where the functional currency is the local currency. Generally, when the dollar either strengthens or weakens against other currencies, the growth at constant currency rates or adjusting for currency will be higher or lower than growth reported at actual exchange rates. Refer to “Currency Rate Fluctuations” for additional information.
- Within the financial statements and tables in this Annual Report, certain columns and rows may not add due to the use of rounded numbers for disclosure purposes. Percentages presented are calculated from the underlying whole-dollar numbers. Certain prior-year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the change in current year presentation. This is annotated where applicable.

# Operating (non-GAAP) Earnings

In an effort to provide better transparency into the operational results of the business, supplementally, management separates business results into operating and non-operating categories. Operating earnings from continuing operations is a non-GAAP measure that excludes the effects of certain acquisition-related charges and intangible asset amortization, expense resulting from basis differences on equity method investments, retirement-related costs and their related tax impacts. Due to the unique, non-recurring nature of the enactment of the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA or U.S. tax reform), management characterizes the one-time provisional charge recorded in the fourth quarter of 2017, and adjustments to that charge, as non-operating. Adjustments include the tax effect of true-ups, audit adjustments, accounting elections and new regulations, or laws (e.g., H.R. 1 in July of 2025) that impact the TCJA provisions which resulted in the one-time provisional charge. For acquisitions, operating (non-GAAP) earnings exclude the amortization of acquired intangible assets and acquisition-related charges such as in-process research and development, transaction costs, applicable retention, restructuring and related expenses, tax charges related to acquisition integration and pre-closing charges, such as financing costs. These charges are excluded as they may be inconsistent in amount and timing from period to period and are significantly impacted by the size, type and frequency of our acquisitions. Management also characterized as non-operating expense, given its unique and temporary nature, the impact on the foreign exchange derivative contracts entered into prior to the acquisition of StreamSets and webMethods from Software AG, beginning in December 2023, to economically hedge the foreign currency exposure related to the purchase price of this acquisition. These derivative contracts expired by June 28, 2024. All other spending for acquired companies is included in both earnings from continuing operations and in operating (non-GAAP) earnings. For retirement-related costs, management characterizes certain items as operating and others as non-operating, consistent with GAAP. We include defined benefit plan and nonpension postretirement benefit plan service costs, multi-employer plan costs and the cost of defined contribution plans in operating earnings. Non-operating retirement-related costs include defined benefit plan and nonpension postretirement benefit plan amortization of prior service costs, interest cost, expected return on plan assets, amortized actuarial gains/losses, the impacts of any plan curtailments/settlements including the impact of the settlement charges of $3.1 billion ($2.4 billion net of tax) resulting from the transfer to insurers of a portion of U.S. and non-U.S. defined benefit pension obligations and related plan assets in 2024 and pension insolvency costs and other costs. Refer to note U, “Retirement-Related Benefits,” for additional information. Non-operating retirement-related costs are primarily related to changes in pension plan assets and liabilities which are tied to financial market performance, and we consider these costs to be outside of the operational performance of the business.

Overall, management believes that supplementally providing investors with a view of operating earnings as described above provides increased transparency and clarity into both the operational results of the business and the performance of our pension plans; improves visibility to management decisions and their impacts on operational performance; enables better comparison to peer companies; and allows us to provide a long-term strategic view of the business going forward. In addition, these non-GAAP measures provide a perspective consistent with areas of interest we routinely receive from investors and analysts.

# FORWARD-LOOKING AND CAUTIONARY STATEMENTS

Certain statements contained in this Annual Report may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Any forward-looking statement in this Annual Report speaks only as of the date on which it is made; IBM assumes no obligation to update or revise any such statements except as required by law. Forward-looking statements are based on IBM’s current assumptions regarding future business and financial performance; these statements, by their nature, address matters that are uncertain to different degrees. Forward-looking statements involve a number of risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to be materially different, as discussed more fully elsewhere in this Annual Report and in the company’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including IBM’s 2025 Form 10-K filed on February 24, 2026.