Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
# International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies

# Contingencies

As a company with a substantial employee population and with clients in more than 175 countries, IBM is involved, either as plaintiff or defendant, in a variety of ongoing claims, demands, suits, investigations, tax matters and proceedings that arise from time to time in the ordinary course of its business. The company is a leader in the information technology industry and, as such, has been and will continue to be subject to claims challenging its IP rights and associated products and offerings, including claims of copyright and patent infringement and violations of trade secrets and other IP rights. In addition, the company enforces its own IP against infringement, through license negotiations, lawsuits or otherwise. Further, given the rapidly evolving external landscape of cybersecurity, AI, privacy and data protection laws, regulations and threat actors, the company and its clients have been and will continue to be subject to actions or proceedings in various jurisdictions. Also, as is typical for companies of IBM’s scope and scale, the company is party to actions and proceedings in various jurisdictions involving a wide range of labor and employment issues (including matters related to contested employment decisions, country-specific labor and employment laws, and the company’s pension, retirement and other benefit plans), as well as actions with respect to contracts, product liability, cybersecurity, data privacy, securities, foreign operations, competition law and environmental matters. These actions may be commenced by a number of different parties, including competitors, clients, current or former employees, government and regulatory agencies, stockholders and representatives of the locations in which the company does business. Some of the actions to which the company is party may involve particularly complex technical issues, and some actions may raise novel questions under the laws of the various jurisdictions in which these matters arise.

The company records a provision with respect to a claim, suit, investigation or proceeding when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. Any recorded liabilities, including any changes to such liabilities for the years ended December 31, 2025, 2024 and 2023 were not material to the Consolidated Financial Statements. In accordance with the relevant accounting guidance, the company provides disclosures of matters for which the likelihood of material loss is at least reasonably possible. In addition, the company also discloses matters based on its consideration of other matters and qualitative factors, including the experience of other companies in the industry, and investor, customer and employee relations considerations.

With respect to certain of the claims, suits, investigations and proceedings discussed herein, the company believes at this time that the likelihood of any material loss is remote, given, for example, the procedural status, court rulings, and/or the strength of the company’s defenses in those matters. With respect to the remaining claims, suits, investigations and proceedings discussed in this note, except as specifically discussed herein, the company is unable to provide estimates of reasonably possible losses or range of losses, including losses in excess of amounts accrued, if any, for the following reasons. Claims, suits, investigations and proceedings are inherently uncertain, and it is not possible to predict the ultimate outcome of these matters. It is the company’s experience that damage amounts claimed in litigation against it are unreliable and unrelated to possible outcomes, and as such are not meaningful indicators of the company’s potential liability. Further, the company is unable to provide such an estimate due to a number of other factors with respect to these claims, suits, investigations and proceedings, including considerations of the procedural status of the matter in question, the presence of complex or novel legal theories, and/or the ongoing discovery and development of information important to the matters. The company reviews claims, suits, investigations and proceedings at least quarterly, and decisions are made with respect to recording or adjusting provisions and disclosing reasonably possible losses or range of losses (individually or in the aggregate), to reflect the impact and status of settlement discussions, discovery, procedural and substantive rulings, reviews by counsel and other information pertinent to a particular matter.

Whether any losses, damages or remedies finally determined in any claim, suit, investigation or proceeding could reasonably have a material effect on the company’s business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows will depend on a number of variables, including: the timing and amount of such losses or damages; the structure and type of any such remedies; the significance of the impact any such losses, damages or remedies may have in the Consolidated Financial Statements; and the unique facts and circumstances of the particular matter that may give rise to additional factors. While the company will continue to defend itself vigorously, it is possible that the company’s business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be affected in any particular period by the resolution of one or more of these matters.

# Legal Matters

The following is a summary of the more significant legal matters involving the company.

On June 2, 2022, a putative class action lawsuit was filed in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York alleging that the IBM Pension Plan miscalculated certain joint and survivor annuity pension benefits by using outdated actuarial tables in violation of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974. IBM, the Plan Administrator Committee, and the IBM Pension Plan are named as defendants. On April 4, 2024, the court dismissed the lawsuit with prejudice. On April 3, 2025, the Second Circuit vacated and remanded the district court’s decision to allow for discovery on statute of limitations. The parties settled the matter, and the case was dismissed with prejudice on December 11, 2025, with no material financial impact to IBM.

The company is party to, or otherwise involved in, proceedings brought by U.S. federal or state environmental agencies under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA), known as “Superfund,” or laws similar to CERCLA. Such statutes require potentially responsible parties to participate in remediation activities regardless of fault or ownership of sites. The company is also conducting environmental investigations, assessments or remediations at or in the vicinity of several current or former operating sites globally pursuant to permits, administrative orders or agreements with country, state or local environmental agencies, and is involved in lawsuits and claims concerning certain current or former operating sites.

# NOTE R. EQUITY ACTIVITY

The authorized capital stock of IBM consists of (i) 4,687,500,000 shares of common stock with a $0.20 per share par value, of which 936,952,129 shares were outstanding at December 31, 2025, and (ii) 150,000,000 shares of preferred stock with a $0.01 per share par value, whereby 75,000,000 shares have been designated as Series A Preferred Stock, of which 57,916,244 shares of Series A Preferred Stock were issued to a wholly owned subsidiary of the company but were not outstanding at December 31, 2025. The company does not intend to issue or transfer any shares of Series A Preferred Stock to any third parties.

# Stock Repurchases

The Board of Directors authorizes the company to repurchase IBM common stock. The company suspended its share repurchase program at the time of the Red Hat acquisition in 2019. At December 31, 2025, $2,008 million of Board common stock repurchase authorization was available.

# Other Stock Transactions

The company issued the following shares of common stock as part of its stock-based compensation plans and employees stock purchase plan: 11,454,210 shares in 2025, 12,253,153 shares in 2024, and 9,794,240 shares in 2023. The company issued 3,023,129 treasury shares in 2025, 2,454,155 treasury shares in 2024, and 2,080,983 treasury shares in 2023, as a result of RSU releases and exercises of stock options by employees of certain acquired businesses and by non-U.S. employees. Also, as part of the company’s stock-based compensation plans, 3,815,280 common shares at a cost of $1,018 million, 3,430,885 common shares at a cost of $651 million, and 2,953,554 common shares at a cost of $402 million in 2025, 2024 and 2023, respectively, were remitted by employees to the company in order to satisfy minimum statutory tax withholding requirements. These amounts are included in the treasury stock balance in the Consolidated Balance Sheet and the Consolidated Statement of Equity.

# Reclassifications and Taxes Related to Items of Other Comprehensive Income

| ($ in millions)                                     | For the year ended December 31, 2025:                          |                   |        |        |
| --------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------- | ------ | ------ |
| Before Tax Amount                                   | Tax (Expense)/ Benefit                                         | Net of Tax Amount |        |        |
| Other comprehensive income/(loss)                   | Foreign currency translation adjustments                       | $(972)            | $528   | $(445) |
|                                                     | Net unrealized gains/(losses) on available-for-sale securities | $(1)              | $0     | $(1)   |
|                                                     | Unrealized gains/(losses) on cash flow hedges                  |                   |        |        |
|                                                     | Unrealized gains/(losses) arising during the period            | $(66)             | $8     | $(58)  |
|                                                     | Reclassification of (gains)/losses to:                         |                   |        |        |
|                                                     | Cost of services                                               | 27                | (7)    | 20     |
|                                                     | Cost of sales                                                  | 15                | (4)    | 11     |
|                                                     | Cost of financing                                              | 4                 | (1)    | 3      |
|                                                     | SG\&A expense                                                  | 6                 | (2)    | 4      |
|                                                     | Other (income) and expense                                     | (525)             | 132    | (393)  |
|                                                     | Interest expense                                               | 24                | (6)    | 18     |
| Total unrealized gains/(losses) on cash flow hedges | $(514)                                                         | $121              | $(394) |        |
| Retirement-related benefit plans (1)                | Prior service costs/(credits)                                  | $(469)            | $117   | $(351) |
|                                                     | Net gains/(losses) arising during the period                   | 392               | (168)  | 224    |
|                                                     | Curtailments and settlements                                   | 9                 | (3)    | 6      |
|                                                     | Amortization of prior service costs/(credits)                  | (7)               | 2      | (5)    |
|                                                     | Amortization of net (gains)/losses                             | 623               | (104)  | 519    |
| Total retirement-related benefit plans              | $548                                                           | $(154)            | $394   |        |
| Other comprehensive income/(loss)                   | $(939)                                                         | $494              | $(445) |        |

(1) These AOCI components are included in the computation of net periodic pension cost. Refer to note U, “Retirement-Related Benefits,” for additional information.