Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
# International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies

# Interest Rate Risk

The company issues debt in the global capital markets to fund its operations and financing business. Access to cost-effective financing can result in interest rate mismatches with the underlying assets. To manage these mismatches and to reduce overall interest cost, the company may use interest-rate swaps to convert specific fixed-rate debt issuances into variable-rate debt (i.e., fair value hedges) and to convert specific variable-rate debt issuances into fixed-rate debt (i.e., cash flow hedges). At both December 31, 2025 and 2024, the total notional amount of the company’s interest-rate swaps was $6.7 billion. The weighted-average remaining maturity of these instruments at December 31, 2025 and 2024 was approximately 3.5 years and 4.5 years, respectively. These interest-rate contracts were accounted for as fair value hedges. The company did not have any cash flow hedges relating to this program outstanding at December 31, 2025 and 2024.

# Foreign Exchange Risk

# Long-Term Investments in Foreign Subsidiaries (Net Investment)

A large portion of the company’s foreign currency denominated debt portfolio is designated as a hedge of net investment in major foreign subsidiaries to reduce the volatility in stockholders’ equity caused by changes in foreign currency exchange rates in the subsidiaries’ functional currency with respect to the U.S. dollar. At December 31, 2025 and 2024, the carrying value of debt designated as hedging instruments was $16.4 billion and $14.0 billion, respectively. The company also uses foreign currency derivatives, which may include forward contracts, long-term cross-currency swaps and options, for this risk management purpose. At December 31, 2025 and 2024, the total notional amount of derivative instruments designated as net investment hedges was $6.9 billion and $6.2 billion, respectively. At both December 31, 2025 and 2024, the weighted-average remaining maturity of these instruments was less than one year.

# Anticipated Royalties and Cost Transactions

The company’s operations generate significant nonfunctional currency, third-party vendor payments and intercompany payments for royalties and goods and services among the company’s non-U.S. subsidiaries and with the company. In anticipation of these foreign currency cash flows and in view of the volatility of the currency markets, the company selectively employs forward contracts to manage its currency risk. These forward contracts are accounted for as cash flow hedges. At December 31, 2025, the maximum length of time remaining over which the company has hedged its exposure is approximately two years. At December 31, 2025 and 2024, the total notional amount of forward contracts designated as cash flow hedges of forecasted royalty and cost transactions was $10.8 billion and $9.7 billion, respectively. At both December 31, 2025 and 2024, the weighted-average remaining maturity of these instruments was less than one year.

At December 31, 2025 and 2024, in connection with cash flow hedges of anticipated royalties and cost transactions, there were unrealized net gains (before taxes) of $4 million and $415 million, respectively, deferred in AOCI. The company estimates that $48 million of deferred net losses (before taxes) on derivatives in AOCI at December 31, 2025 will be reclassified to net income within the next 12 months, providing an offsetting economic impact against the underlying anticipated transactions.

# Foreign Currency Denominated Borrowings

The company is exposed to exchange rate volatility on foreign currency denominated debt. To manage this risk, the company may employ forward contracts or cross-currency swaps to convert the principal, or principal and interest payments of foreign currency denominated debt to debt denominated in the functional currency of the borrowing entity. These derivatives are accounted for as cash flow hedges. At December 31, 2025, the maximum length of time remaining over which the company has hedged its exposure was approximately five years. At December 31, 2025 and 2024, the total notional amount of derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges of foreign currency denominated debt was $4.8 billion and $5.0 billion, respectively.

At December 31, 2025 and 2024, in connection with forward contracts, there were unrealized net losses (before taxes) of $48 million and unrealized net gains (before taxes) of $84 million, respectively, deferred in AOCI. Approximately $88 million of losses (before taxes) related to the initial forward points excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness is expected to be amortized to other (income) and expense within the next 12 months.

# Subsidiary Cash and Foreign Currency Asset/Liability Management

The company uses its Global Treasury Centers to manage the cash of its subsidiaries. These centers principally use currency swaps to convert cash flows in a cost-effective manner. In addition, the company uses foreign exchange forward contracts to economically hedge, on a net basis, the foreign currency exposure of a portion of the company’s nonfunctional currency assets and liabilities. The terms of these forward and swap contracts are generally less than one year. The changes in the fair values of these contracts and of the underlying hedged exposures are generally offsetting and are recorded in other (income) and expense in the Consolidated Income Statement. At December 31, 2025 and 2024, the total notional amount of derivative instruments in economic hedges of foreign currency exposure was $6.4 billion and $7.4 billion, respectively.