Management Discussion
# International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies

# Critical Accounting Estimates

The application of GAAP requires IBM to make estimates and assumptions about certain items and future events that directly affect its reported financial condition. The accounting estimates and assumptions discussed in this section are those that we consider to be the most critical to our financial statements. An accounting estimate is considered critical if both (a) the nature of the estimate or assumption is material due to the levels of subjectivity and judgment involved, and (b) the impact within a reasonable range of outcomes of the estimate and assumption is material to IBM’s financial condition. Senior management has discussed the development, selection and disclosure of these estimates with the Audit Committee of IBM’s Board of Directors. Our significant accounting policies are described in note A, “Significant Accounting Policies.”

A quantitative sensitivity analysis is provided where that information is reasonably available, can be reliably estimated and provides material information to investors. The amounts used to assess sensitivity (e.g., 1 percent, 10 percent, etc.) are included to allow users of the financial statements to understand a general direction cause and effect of changes in the estimates and do not represent management’s predictions of variability. For all of these estimates, it should be noted that future events rarely develop exactly as forecasted, and estimates require regular review and adjustment.

# Pension Assumptions

For our defined benefit pension plans, the measurement of the benefit obligation to plan participants and net periodic pension (income)/cost requires the use of certain assumptions, including, among others, estimates of discount rates, interest crediting rates and expected return on plan assets. Beginning in 2024, as a result of changes to the Qualified PPP as discussed in note U, “Retirement-Related Benefits,” the interest crediting rate and expected return on plan assets will be based on their relationship to the plan’s discount rate.

Changes in the discount rate and the interest crediting rate assumptions would impact the service cost, (gain)/loss amortization and interest cost components of the net periodic pension (income)/cost calculation and the projected benefit obligation (PBO). Changes in the expected long-term return on plan assets assumption impacts the net periodic pension (income)/cost. Expected returns on plan assets are calculated based on the market-related value of plan assets, which recognizes changes in the fair value of plan assets systematically over a five-year period in the expected return on plan assets line in net periodic pension (income)/cost. The differences between the actual return on plan assets and the expected long-term return on plan assets are recognized over five years in the expected return on plan assets line in net periodic pension (income)/cost and also as a component of actuarial (gains)/losses, which are recognized over the service lives or life expectancy of the participants, depending on the plan, provided such amounts exceed thresholds which are based upon the benefit obligation or the value of plan assets, as provided by accounting standards.

The discount rate assumption for the Qualified PPP and Excess Personal Pension Plan (U.S. Defined Benefit Pension Plans), decreased by 30 basis points to 5.2 percent on December 31, 2025. This change will decrease pre-tax income recognized in 2026 by an estimated $40 million. A 25 basis point increase in the discount rate assumption would cause a corresponding increase in the pre-tax income recognized in 2026 by an estimated $30 million. A 25 basis point decrease in the discount rate assumption would cause a corresponding decrease in the pre-tax income recognized in 2026 by an estimated $70 million. The impact on pre-tax income as a result of a change in discount rate includes the impact of a similar change in the interest crediting rate. The increase or decrease in the discount rate would also cause a corresponding increase or decrease, respectively, in the 2026 expected return on plan assets assumption. Further changes in the discount rate assumptions would impact the PBO which, in turn, may impact our funding decisions if the PBO exceeds plan assets. A 25 basis point increase or decrease in the discount rate would decrease or increase the PBO by approximately $300 million. The impact on the PBO as a result of a change in discount rate includes the impact of a similar change in the interest crediting rate. Each 50 basis point change in the expected long-term return on these U.S. defined benefit plan assets assumption would have an estimated impact of approximately $90 million on the following year’s pre-tax net periodic pension (income)/cost (based upon the 2026 assumptions).

We may voluntarily make contributions or be required, by law, to make contributions to our pension plans. Actual results that differ from the estimates may result in more or less future IBM funding into the pension plans than is planned by management. Impacts of these types of changes on our pension plans in other countries worldwide would vary depending upon the status of each respective plan.

In addition to the above, we evaluate other pension assumptions involving demographic factors, such as retirement age and mortality, and update these assumptions to reflect experience and expectations for the future. Actual results in any given year can differ from actuarial assumptions because of economic and other factors.

For additional information on our pension plans and the development of these assumptions, refer to note U, “Retirement-Related Benefits.”

# Revenue Recognition

Application of GAAP related to the measurement and recognition of revenue requires us to make judgments and estimates. Specifically, complex arrangements with nonstandard terms and conditions may require contract interpretation to determine the appropriate accounting, including whether promised goods and services specified in an arrangement are distinct performance obligations. Other judgments may include determining the standalone selling price (SSP), determining whether IBM or a reseller is acting as the principal in a transaction and whether separate contracts should be combined and considered part of one arrangement.

Revenue recognition is also impacted by our ability to determine when a contract is probable of collection and to estimate variable consideration, including, for example, rebates, volume discounts, service-level penalties and performance bonuses. We consider various factors when making these judgments, including a review of specific transactions, historical experience and market and economic conditions. Evaluations are conducted each quarter to assess the adequacy of the estimates.

# Costs to Complete Service Contracts

We enter into numerous service contracts through our services businesses. During the contractual period, revenue, cost and profits may be impacted by estimates of the ultimate profitability of each contract, especially contracts for which we use cost-to-cost measures of progress. For those contracts, if at any time these estimates indicate the contract will be unprofitable, the entire estimated loss for the remainder of the contract is recorded immediately in cost. We perform ongoing profitability analyses of these services contracts in order to determine whether the latest estimates require updating. Key factors reviewed to estimate the future costs to complete each contract are future labor costs and product costs, and expected productivity efficiencies. Contract loss provisions recorded as a component of other accrued expenses and liabilities were not material at December 31, 2025 and 2024.

# Income Taxes

We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining the consolidated provision for income taxes.

During the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. As a result, we recognize tax liabilities based on estimates of whether additional taxes and interest will be due. These tax liabilities are recognized when, despite our belief that our tax return positions are supportable, we believe that certain positions may not be fully sustained upon review by tax authorities. We believe that our accruals for tax liabilities are adequate for all open audit years based on our assessment of many factors, including past experience and interpretations of tax law. This assessment relies on estimates and assumptions and may involve a series of complex judgments about future events. To the extent that new information becomes available which causes us to change our judgment regarding the adequacy of existing tax liabilities, such changes to tax liabilities will impact income tax expense in the period in which such determination is made.

Significant judgment is also required in determining any valuation allowance recorded against deferred tax assets. In assessing the need for a valuation allowance, management considers all available evidence for each jurisdiction including past operating results, estimates of future taxable income and the feasibility of ongoing tax planning strategies/actions. In the event that we change our determination as to the amount of deferred tax assets that can be realized, we will adjust the valuation allowance with a corresponding impact to income tax expense in the period in which such determination is made.

The consolidated provision for income taxes will change period to period based on non-recurring events, such as the settlement of income tax audits and changes in tax laws, as well as recurring factors including the geographic mix of income before taxes, state and local taxes and the effects of various global income tax strategies.

To the extent that the provision for income taxes increases/decreases by 1 percent of income from continuing operations before income taxes, consolidated net income would have decreased/increased by approximately $100 million in 2025.

# Valuation of Assets

The application of business combination and impairment accounting requires the use of significant estimates and assumptions. The acquisition method of accounting for business combinations requires us to estimate the fair value of assets acquired, including separately identifiable intangible assets, liabilities assumed, and any noncontrolling interest in the acquiree to properly allocate purchase price consideration. Impairment testing for assets, other than goodwill, requires the allocation of cash flows to those assets or group of assets and if required, an estimate of fair value for the assets or group of assets. Our estimates are based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable, but which are inherently uncertain and unpredictable. These valuations require the use of management’s assumptions, which would not reflect unanticipated events and circumstances that may occur.

# Valuation of Goodwill

We review goodwill for impairment annually and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of goodwill may not be recoverable. We first assess qualitative factors in each of our reporting units that carry goodwill including relevant events and circumstances that affect the fair value of the reporting units to determine if it is more likely than not that the...