AFD – 2025 half-year financial reportThese financial assets are initially measured at their fair value plus transaction costs. They are subsequently measured at fair value and changes in fair value are recorded in other comprehensive income that may be recycled. They are also subject to a calculation of expected credit risk losses on the same terms as those applicable to debt securities at amortised cost (Note 5 “Financial instruments at amortised cost”).Interest is recorded as income using the effective interest rate method.Upon disposal, changes in value previously recognised in other comprehensive income will be transferred to the income statement.## c) Debt securities at fair value through profit and lossThis category includes debt securities that do not comply with the SPPI criteria:- Equity investment in funds and direct securities with put options and other debt securities (e.g. UCITS, etc.)The characteristics of the contractual flows are such that these do not pass the SPPI test, therefore they cannot be measured at amortised cost.In line with its procedures, AFD classifies its financial assets using two primary criteria: assets listed on a market and unlisted assets.Listed assets are divided into two subgroups, those listed on an “active” market, an attribute that is appraised according to objective criteria, or those listed on an inactive market. Assets listed on an “active” market are automatically classified as fair value level 1 according to IFRS 13. Assets listed on an “inactive” market are classified as fair value level 2 or 3, depending on the valuation method used. When there are direct or indirect observable data used for the valuation, the asset is classified as fair value level 2 according to IFRS 13.When there are no such data or those data are not “observable” (isolated observation, without recurrence), the asset is classified as fair value level 3, just like the unlisted assets. All unlisted assets are classified as fair value level 3 and are evaluated primarily using two methods, the proportionate share of the re-evaluated net asset based on the latest financial statements transmitted by the concerned entities (< six months) and the historic cost for AFD’s real estate subsidiaries.Valuations are reviewed every six months. In the event of any changes to the parameters that could be cause for changes to the fair value classification level, the Group Risk Department decides to propose the change in classification that is subject to approval by the Group Risk Management Committee.## LoansSome loan agreements have an early repayment clause, the contractual amount of which corresponds to a settlement equal to the cost of unwinding an associated hedge swap. The early repayment flows of these loans are considered to be non-SPPI if they do not purely reflect the effect of changes in the reference interest rates.As a result, AFD Group has identified a loan portfolio which is measured at fair value through profit and loss. The loans are therefore subjected to a valuation exercise based on the methodology for discounting future flows, with a discount rate specific to each loan.- Foreign exchange or interest rate derivatives used in economic hedgingThese are derivatives that do not meet the definition of hedge accounting under IAS 39. These assets and liabilities are measured at fair value in the income statement. The change in fair value is recorded in the income statement under “net gains and losses on financial instruments at fair value”. The fair value of the foreign exchange derivatives entered into by AFD frequently includes a hedge of the future margin on loans denominated in foreign currencies. The foreign exchange income from related assets recognised in income or expenses on other activities partially offsets this impact. The amount initially recorded on the balance sheet for a derivative measured at fair value is equal to the consideration given27